# Liber Primus · Chapter V: Soul and God
## 第一冊 第五章：靈魂與上帝

**[EN]** 244 I LIBER PRIMUS fol. vCr) IvCv) . Do you see what beauty and joy came over men when the depths unleashed this greatest war? And yet it was a frightful beginning.137 If we do not have the depths, how do we have the heights? Yet you fear the depths, and do not want to confess that you are afraid of them. It is good, though, that you fear yourselves; say it out loud that you are afraid of yourselves. It is wisdom to fear oneself Only the heroes say that they are fearless. But you know what happens to the hero. With fear and trembling, looking around yourselves with mistrust, go thus into the depths, but do not do this alone; two or more is greater security since the depths are full of murder. Also secure yourselves the way of retreat. Go cautiously as if you were cowards, so that you pre-empt the soul murderers.138 The depths would like to devour you whole and choke you in mud. He who journeys to Hell also becomes Hell; therefore do not forget from whence you come. The depths are stronger than us; so do not be heroes, be clever and drop the heroics, since nothing is more dangerous than to play the hero. The depths want to keep you; they have not returned very many up to now, and therefore men fled. from the depths and attacked them. What if the depths, due to the assault, now change themselves into death? But the depths indeed have changed themselves into death; therefore when they awoke they inflicted a thousand- fold death. 139 We cannot slay death, as we have already taken all life from it. If we still want to overcome death, then we must enliven it. Therefore on your journey be sure to take golden cups full of the sweet drink of life, red wine, and give it to dead matter, so that it can win life back The dead matter will change into black serpents. Do not be frightened, the serpents will immediately put out the sun of your days, and a night with wonderful will-o'-the-wisps will come over YOU.140 Take pains to waken the dead. Dig deep mines and throw in sacrificial gifts, so that they reach the dead. Reflect in good heart upon evil, this is the way to the ascent. But before the ascent, everything is night and Hell. . What do you think of the essence of Hell? Hell is when the depths come to you with all that you no longer are or are not yet capable of Hell is when you can no longer attain what you could attain. Hell is when you must thinlc and feel and do everything that you know you do not want. Hell is when you know that your having to is also a wanting to, and that you yourself are responsible for it. Hell is when you know that everything serious that you have planned with yourself is also laughable, that everything fine is also brutal, that everything good is also bad, that everything high is also low, and that everything pleasant is also shameful. But the deepest Hell is when you realize that Hell is also no Hell, but a cheerful Heaven, not a Heaven in itself, but in this respect a Heaven, and in that respect a Hell. That is the ambiguity of the God: he is born from a dark ambiguity and rises to a bright ambiguity. Unequivocalness is simplicity and leads to death. 141 But ambiguity is the way of life. 142 If the left foot does not move, then the right one does, and you move. The God wills this. 143 You say: the Christian God is unequivocal, he is 10ve.l44 But what is more ambiguous than love? Love is the way of life, but your love is only on the way of life if you have a left and a right. Nothing is easier than to play at ambiguity and nothing is more difficult than living ambiguity. He who plays is a child; his God is old and dies. He who lives is awakened; his God is young and goes on. He who plays hides from the inner death. He who lives feels the going onward and immortality. So leave the play to the players. Let fall what wants to fall; if you stop it, it will sweep you away. There is a true love that does not concern itself with neighbors.145 When the hero was slain and the meaning recognized in the absurdity; when all tension came rushing down from gravid clouds, when everything had become cowardly and looked to its own rescue, I became aware of the birth of the God.146 Opposing me, the God sank into my heart when I was confused by mockery and worship, by grief and laughter, by yes and no. The one arose from the melting together of the two. He was born as a child from my own human soul, which had conceived him with resistance like a virgin. Thus it corresponds to the image that the ancients have given to US.147 But when the mother, my soul, was pregnant with the God, I did not know it. It even seemed to me as if my soul herself was the God, although he lived only in her body.148 And thus the image of the ancients is fulfilled: I pursued my soul to kill the child in it. For I am also the worst enemy of my God.149 But I also recognized that my enmity is decided upon in the God. He is mockery and hate and anger, since this is also a way of life. I must say that the God could not come into being before the hero had been slain. The hero as we understand him has become an enemy of the God, since the hero is perfection. The Gods envy the perfection of man, because perfection has no need of the Gods. But since no one is perfect, we need the Gods. The Gods love perfection because it is the total way of life. But the Gods are not with him 137 The Corrected Drqft has: "a beginning of Hell" (p. 70). ·In 1933 Jung recalled: "At the outbreak of war I was in Inverness, and I returned through Holland and Germany I came right through the armies going west, and I had the feeling that it was what one would call in German a Hochzeitsstimmung, a feast oflove allover the country the main thing was the brotherly love allover the country, everybody was everybody else's brother, one could have everything anyone possessed, it did not matter. The peasants threw open their cellars and handed out what they had. That happened even in the restaurant and buffet at the railroad station. I was very hungry, I had had nothing to eat for about twenty-four hours, and they had some sandwiches left, and when I asked what they cost, they said, "Oh nothing, just take them!" And when I first crossed the border into Germany, we were led into an enormous tent full of beer and sausages and bread and cheese, and we paid nothing, it was one great feast of love. I was absolutely bewildered" (Visions Seminars '2, ed. Claire Douglas [Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1997], pp. 974-75). 138 The phrase "Soul murderer" had been used by Luther and Zwingli, and more recently by Daniel Paul Schreber in his 1903 Memoirs of my Nervous Illness, eds. and tr. Ida Macalpine and Richard Hunter (Folkestone: William Dawson, 1955). Jung discussed this work in 1907 in "On the psychology of dementia praecox" (CW 3), and drew Freud's attention to it. In discussions concerning Schreber in the Association for Analytical Psychology on July 9 and 16 of 1915 following presentations by Schneiter, Jlmg drew attention to Gnostic parallels to Schreber's imagery (MAP, vol. I., p. 88f). 139 The reference is to the carnage of World War 1. 140 This refers back to the vision in chapter 5, "Descent into Hell in the Future." In 1940 Jung wrote: "the threat to one's inmost self from dragons and serpents points to the danger of the newly acquired consciousness being swallowed up again by the instinctive soul, tlle unconscious" ("On the psychology of the child archetype," cw 9,1, §282). 141 The Corrected Draft has instead "to an end" (P.73). 142 In 1952, Jung wrote to Zwi Werblowsky concerning the intentional ambiguity of his writings: "The language I speak must be equivocal, that is, ambiguous, to do justice to psychic nature with its double aspect. I strive consciously and deliberately for ambiguous expressions, because it is superior to unequivocalness and corresponds to the nature of being" (Letters 2, pp. 70-71). 143 The Drqft continues: "Look at the images of the Gods that the ancients and the men of old left behind: their nature is ambiguous and equivocal" (p. 87). 144 I John 4:16: "God is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him." 145 The Drqft continues: "Whoever reverses this word and others that I speak, is a player, since he doesn't respect the spoken word. Know that you attain yourself from what you read in a book. You read as much into a book as out of it" (p. 88). 146 The Corrected Drqft has "birth--of-the-new [conception of a] God" (p. 74). 147 The reference is to the Virgin Mary 148 See note 57, p. 237- 149 This seems to refer to the wounding of Izdubar in Libel' Secundus, ch. 8, "First Day" See below, p. 278£ who wishes to be perfect, because he is an imitation of perfection.lso Imitation was a way of life when men still needed the heroic prototype. lSI The monkey's manner is a way of life for monkeys, and for man as long as he is like a monkey Human apishness has lasted a terribly long time, but the time will come when a piece of that apishness will fall away from men. That will be a time of salvation and the dove, and the eternal fire, and redemption will descend. Then there will no longer be a hero, and no one who can imitate him. Because from that time henceforth all imitation is cursed. The new God laughs at imitation and discipleship. He needs no imitators and no pupils. He forces men through himself The God is his own follower in man. He imitates himself We think that there is singleness within us, and communality outside us. Outside of us is the communal in relation to the external, while singleness refers to us. We are single if we are in ourselves, but communal in relation to what is outside us. But if we are outside of ourselves, then we are single and selfish in the communal. Our self suffers privation if we are outside ourselves, and thus it satisfies its needs with communality Consequently; communality is distorted into singleness. If we are in ourselves, we fulfil the need of the sel£ we prosper, and through this we become aware of the needs of the communal and can fulfil them.ls2 If we set a God outside of ourselves, he tears us loose from the sel£ since the God is more powerful than we are. Our self falls into privation. But if the God moves into the sel£ he snatches us from what is outside US. IS3 We arrive at singleness in ourselves. So the God becomes communal in reference to what is outside us, but single in relation to us. No one has my God, but my God has everyone, including myself The Gods of all individual men always have all other men, including myself So it is always only the one God despite his multiplicity You arrive at him in yourself and only through your self seizing you. It seizes you in the advancement of your life. The hero must fall for the sake of our redemption, since he is the model and demands imitation. But the measure of imitation is fulfi1led. ls4 We should become reconciled to solitude in ourselves and to the God outside of us. If we enter into this solitude then the life of the God begins. If we are in ourselves, then the space around us is free, but filled by the God. Our relations to men go through this empty space and also through the God. But earlier it went through selfishness since we were outside ourselves. Therefore the spirit foretold to me that the cold of outer space will spread across the earth.lss With this he showed me in an image that the God will step between men and drive every individual with the whip of icy cold to the warmth of his own monastic hearth. Because people were beside themselves, going into raptures like madmen. MYSTERIUM. ENCOUNTER I 245 Selfish desire ultimately desires itself You find yourself in your desire, so do not say that desire is vain. If you desire yoursel£ you produce the divine son in your embrace with yourself Your desire is the father of the God, your self is the mother of the God, but the son is the new God, your master. If you embrace your sel£ then it will appear to you as if the world has become cold and empty The cOlning God moves into this emptiness. If you are in your solitude, and all the space around you has become cold and unending, then you have moved far from men, and at the same time you have come near to them as never before. Selfish desire only" apparently led you to men, but in reality it led you away from them and in the end to yoursel£ which to you and to others was the most remote. But now, if you are in solitude, your God leads you to the God of others, and through that to the true neighbor, to the neighbor of the self in others. If you are in yoursel£ you become aware of your incapacity. You will see how little capable you are of imitating the heroes and of being a hero yourself So you will also no longer force others to become heroes. Like you, they suffer from incapacity Incapacity; too, wants to live, but it will overthrow your Gods. [B P v (1]] I M ysteriutn. [HI v(v)] Cap. ix. On the night when I considered the essence of the God, I became aware of an image: I lay in a dark depth. An old man stood before me. He looked like one of the old prophets.ls6 A black serpent lay at his feet. Some distance away I saw a house with columns. A beautiful maiden steps out of the door. She walks uncertainly and I see that she is blind. The old man waves to me and I follow him to the house at the foot of the sheer wall of rock. The serpent creeps behind us. Darkness reigns inside the house. We are in a high hall with glittering walls. A bright stone the color of water lies in the background. As I look into its reflection, the images of Eve, the tree, and the serpent appear to me. After this I catch sight of Odysseus and his journey on the high seas. Suddenly a door opens on the right, onto a garden full of bright sunshine. We step outside and the old man says to me, "Do you know where you are?" I: "I am a stranger here and everything seems strange to me, anxious as in a dream. Who are you?" I: "The daughter of Herod, the bloodthirsty woman?" ISO The importance of wholeness above perfection is an important theme in Jung's later work. Cf Aion, 1951, cw 9, 2, §123; Mysterium Coniunctionis, 1955/56, CW 14, §616. lSI In 1916, Jung wrote: "Man has one ability which, though it is of the greatest utility for collective purposes, is the most pernicious for individuation, and that is imitation. Collective psychology can hardly dispense with imitation" ("The structure of the unconscious," CW 7, §463). In "On the psychology of the child archetype" (1940) Jung wrote about the danger of identifying with the hero: "This identity is often very extremely stubborn and dangerous for the equilibrium of the soul. If the identity can be dissolved, the figure of the hero, through the reduction of consciousness to a human level, can gradually be differentiated into a symbol of the self" (CW 9, I, §303). IS2 Jung dealt with the issue of the conflict between individuation and collectivity in 1916 in "Individuation and collectivity" (CW 18). IS3 Cf Jung's comments in "Individuation and collectivity" that "The individual must now consolidate himself by cutting himself off from God and becoming wholly himself Thereby and at the same time he also separates himself from society: Outwardly he plunges into solitude, but inwardly into Hell, distance from God" (CW 18, §II03). IS4 This is an interpretation of the murder of Siegfried in Liber Primus, ch. 7, "Murder of the Hero." ISS This refers to the dream mentioned in the prologue, p. 231. . IS6 In Black Book 2 Jung noted: "with a gray beard and wearing an Oriental robe" (p. 231). IS7 Elijah was one of the prophets of the Old Testament. He first appears in I Kings 17, bearing a message from God to Ahab, the Icing of Israel. In 1953, the Carmelite Pere Bruno wrote to Jung asking how one established the existence of an archetype. Jung replied by tiling Elijah as an example, describing him as a highly mythical personage, which did not prevent him from probably being a historical figure. Drawing together descriptions of him throughout history; Jung described him as a "living archetype" who represented the collective unconscious and the self He noted that such a constellated archetype gave rise to new forms of assimilation, and represented a compensation on the part of the unconscious (CW 18, §§15I8-31). IS8 Salome was the daughter of Herodias and the step-daughter of King Herod. In Matthew 14 and Mark 6, John the Baptist had told King Herod that it was unlawful for him to be married to his brother's wife, and Herod put him in prison. Salome (who is not named, but simply called the daughter of Herodias) danced before Herod on his birthday, and he promised to give her anything she wished for. She requested the head of John the Baptist, who was then beheaded. In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the figure of Salome fascinated painters and writers, including Guillaume Apollinaire, Gustave Flaubert, Stephane Mallarme, Gustave Moreau, Oscar Wilde, and Franz von Stuck, featuring in many works. See Bram Dijkstra, Idols ojPerversity: Fantasies ojFeminine Evil in Fin-de-Siecle Culture (New York: Oxford University Press, 1986), pp. 379-98. fo1. vCr) Iv(v) 246 I LIBER PRIMUS fol. V(V) /vi(r) daughter, the daughter of the prophet." I: "What miracle has united you?" c and my daughter are one." I am shocked, I am incapable of grasping it. companions through eternity." I: "Forgive my astonishment, am I truly in the underworld?" S: "Do you love me?" I: "How can I love you? How do you come to this question? I see only one thing, you are Salome, a tiger, your hands are stained with the blood of the holy one. How should I love you?" S: "You will love me." I: "I? Love you? Who gives you the right to such thoughts?" S: "I love you." I: "Leave me be, I dread you, you beast." S: "You do me wrong. Elijah is my father, and he knows the deepest mysteries. The walls of his house are made of precious stones. His wells hold healing water and his eyes see the things of the future. And what wouldn't you give for a single look into the infinite unfolding of what is to come? Are these not worth a sin for you?" I: "Your temptation is devilish. I long to be back in the upper world. It is dreadful here. How oppressive and heavy is the air!" I: "But I do not belong to the dead. I live in the light of day: Why should I torment myself here with Salome? Do I not have enough of my own life to deal with?" I: "I cannot believe that you,·the prophet, can recognize her as a daughter and a companion. Is she not engendered from hei- nous seed? Was she not vain greed and criminal lust?" I: ''And shamefully shed his precious blood." to the world. She loved him, do you understand that? For         is my daughter." I: "Do you think that because she is your daughter, she loved the prophet in John, the father?" I: "But how did she love him? Do you call that love?" I: "I am horrified. Who wouldn't be horrified if Salome loved him?" been one since eternity." I: "You pose dreadful riddles. How could it be that this unholy woman and you, the prophet of your God, could be one?" I: "What my eyes see is exactly what I cannot grasp. You, Elijah, who are a prophet, the mouth of God, and she, a bloodthirsty horror. You are the symbol of the most extreme contradiction." I see how the black serpent writhes up the tree, and hides in the branches. Everything becomes gloomy and doubtful. Elijah rises, I follow and we go silently back through the hall. I59 Doubt tears me apart. It is all so unreal and yet a part of my longing remains behind. Will I come again? Salome loves me, do I love her? I hear wild music, a tambourine, a sultry moonlit night, the bloody-staring head of the holy onel6o-fear seizes me. I rush out. I am surrounded by the dark night. It is pitch black all around me. Who murdered the hero? Is this why Salome loves me? Do I love her, and did I therefore murder the hero? She is one with the prophet, one with John, but also one with me? Woe, was she the hand of the God? I do not love her, I fear her. Then the spirit of the depths spoke to me and said: "Therein you acknowledge her divine power." Must I love Salome?161 [2] 162This play that I witnessed is my play, not your play. It is my secret, not yours. You cannot imitate me. My secret remains virginal and my mysteries are inviolable, they belong to me and cannot belong to you. You have your own. 163 He who enters into his own must grope through what lies at hand, he must sense his way from stone to stone. He must embrace the worthless and the worthy with the same love. A mountain is nothing, and a grain oj sand holds kingdoms, or also nothing. Judgment must fall from you, even taste, but above all pride, even when it is based on merit. Utterly poor, miserable, unknowingly humiliated, go on through the gate. Turn your anger against yourself, since only you stop yourself from looking and from liVing. The mystery play is soft like air and thin smoke, and you are raw matter that is disturbingly heavy. But let your hope, which is your highest good and highest ability, lead the way 159 Black Book 2 continues: "The crystal shines dimly. I think again of the image of Odysseus, how he passed the rocky island of the Sirens on his lengthy odyssey. Should I, should I not?" (P.74). 160 I.e., the head of John the Baptist. 161 In the 1925 Seminar, Jung recounted: "I used the same technique of the descent, but this time I went much deeper. The first time I should say I reached a depth of about one thousand feet, but this time it was a cosmic depth. It was like going to the moon, or like the feeling of a descent into empty space. First the picture was of a crater, or a ring-chain of mountains, and my feeling association was that of one dead, as if oneself were a victim. It was the mood of the land of the hereafter. I could see two people, an old man with a white beard and a young girl who was very beautiful. I assumed them to be real and listened to what they were saying. The old man said he was Elijah and I was.quite shocked, but she was even more upsetting because she was Salome. I said to myself that there was a queer mixture: Salome and Elijah, but as being the most reasonable of the lot, for he seemed to have a mind. I was exceedingly doubtful about Salome. We had a long conversation but I did not understand it. Of course I thought of the fact of my father being a clergyman as being the explanation of my having figures like this. How about this old man then? Salome was not to be touched upon. It was only much later that I found her association with Elijah quite natural. Whenever you take journeys like this you find a young girl with an old man" (ftnalytical Psychology, pp. 63-64). Jung then refers to examples of this pattern in the work of Melville, Meyrink, Rider Haggard, and the Gnostic legend of Simon Magus (see note 154, p. 359), Kundry and Klingsor from Wagner's Parsifal (see below, p. 303), and Francesco Colonna's Hypnerotomachia. In Memories, he noted: "In myths the snake is a frequent counterpart of the hero. There are numerous accounts of their affinity ... Therefore the presence of the snake was an indication of a hero-myth" (p. 206). Of Salome, he said: "Salome is an anima figure. She is blind because she does not see the meaning of things. Elijah is the figure of the wise old prophet and represents the factor of intelligence and knowledge; Salome, the erotic element. One might say that the two figures are personifications of Logos and Eros. But such a definition would be excessively intellectual. It is more meaningful to let the figures be what they were for me at that time-namely; events and experiences" (pp. 206-7). In 1955/56, Jung wrote: "For purely psychological reasons I have elsewhere attempted to equate the masculine consciousness with the concept of Logos and the feminine with that of Eros. By Logos I meant discrimination, judgment, insight, and by Eros I meant the placing into relation" (Mysterium Coniunctionis, CW 14, §224). On Jung's reading of Elijah and Salome in terms of Logos and Eros respectively; see Appendix B, "Commentaries." 162 The Corrected Draft has: "Guiding Rejfection" (p. 86). The Draft and Corrected Draft have "This, my friend, is a mystery play in which the spirit of the depths cast me. I had recognized the-birth-ofthe-new-6od [the conception], and therefore the spirit of the depths allowed me to participate in the underworld ceremonies, which were sup- posed to instmct me about the God's intentions and works. Through these rituals I was supposed to be initiated into the mysteries of redemption" (Corrected Draft, p. 86). 163 The Draft continues: "In the renewed world you can have no outer possessions, unless you create them out of yourselves. You can enter only into your own mysteries. The spirit of the depths has other things to teach you than me. I only have to bring you tidings of the new God and of the ceremonies and mysteries of his service. But this is the way. It is the gate to darkness" (p. lOO).

**[ZH]** 【榮格深度心理學對照】 244 I LIBER PRIMUS fol vCr) IvCv) Do you see what beauty and joy came over men when the depths unleashed this greatest war? And yet it was a frightful beginning.137 If we do not have the depths, how do we have the heights? Yet you fear the depths, and do not want to confess that you are afraid of them It is good, though, that you fear yourselves; say it out loud that you are afraid of yourselves It is wisdom to fear oneself Only the heroes say that they are fearless But you know what happens to the hero With fear and trembling, looking around yourselves with mistrust, go thus into the depths, but do not do this alone; two or more is greater security since the depths are full of murder Also secure yourselves the way of retreat Go cautiously as if you were cowards, so that you pre-empt the soul murderers.138 The depths would like to devour you whole and choke you in mud He who journeys to Hell also becomes Hell; therefore do not forget from whence you come The depths are stronger than us; so do not be heroes, be clever and drop the heroics, since nothing is more dangerous than to play the hero The depths want to keep you; they have not returned very many up to now, and therefore men fled from the depths and attacked them What if the depths, due to the assault, now change themselves into death? But the depths indeed have changed themselves into death; therefore when they awoke they inflicted a thousand- fold death 139 We cannot slay death, as we have already taken all life from it If we still want to overcome death, then we must enliven it Therefore on your journey be sure to take golden cups full of the sweet drink of life, red wine, and give it to dead matter, so that it can win life back The dead matter will change into black serpents Do not be frightened, the serpents will immediately put out the sun of your days, and a night with wonderful will-o'-the-wisps will come over YOU.140 Take pains to waken the dead Dig deep mines and throw in sacrificial gifts, so that they reach the dead Reflect in good heart upon evil, this is the way to the ascent But before the ascent, everything is night and Hell What do you think of the essence of Hell? Hell is when the depths come to you with all that you no longer are or are not yet capable of Hell is when you can no longer attain what you could attain Hell is when you must thinlc and feel and do everything that you know you do not want Hell is when you know that your having to is also a wanting to, and that you yourself are responsible for it Hell is when you know that everything serious that you have planned with yourself is also laughable, that everything fine is also brutal, that everything good is also bad, that everything high is also low, and that everything pleasant is also shameful But the deepest Hell is when you realize that Hell is also no Hell, but a cheerful Heaven, not a Heaven in itself, but in this respect a Heaven, and in that respect a Hell That is the ambiguity of the God: he is born from a dark ambiguity and rises to a bright ambiguity Unequivocalness is simplicity and leads to death 141 But ambiguity is the way of life 142 If the left foot does not move, then the right one does, and you move The God wills this 143 You say: the Christian God is unequivocal, he is 10ve.l44 But what is more ambiguous than love? Love is the way of life, but your love is only on the way of life if you have a left and a right Nothing is easier than to play at ambiguity and nothing is more difficult than living ambiguity He who plays is a child; his God is old and dies He who lives is awakened; his God is young and goes on He who plays hides from the inner death He who lives feels the going onward and immortality So leave the play to the players Let fall what wants to fall; if you stop it, it will sweep you away There is a true love that does not concern itself with neighbors.145 When the hero was slain and the meaning recognized in the absurdity; when all tension came rushing down from gravid clouds, when everything had become cowardly and looked to its own rescue, I became aware of the birth of the God.146 Opposing me, the God sank into my heart when I was confused by mockery and worship, by grief and laughter, by yes and no The one arose from the melting together of the two He was born as a child from my own human soul, which had conceived him with resistance like a virgin Thus it corresponds to the image that the ancients have given to US.147 But when the mother, my soul, was pregnant with the God, I did not know it It even seemed to me as if my soul herself was the God, although he lived only in her body.148 And thus the image of the ancients is fulfilled: I pursued my soul to kill the child in it For I am also the worst enemy of my God.149 But I also recognized that my enmity is decided upon in the God He is mockery and hate and anger, since this is also a way of life I must say that the God could not come into being before the hero had been slain The hero as we understand him has become an enemy of the God, since the hero is perfection The Gods envy the perfection of man, because perfection has no need of the Gods But since no one is perfect, we need the Gods The Gods love perfection because it is the total way of life But the Gods are not with him 137 The Corrected Drqft has: "a beginning of Hell" (p 70) ·In 1933 Jung recalled: "At the outbreak of war I was in Inverness, and I returned through Holland and Germany I came right through the armies going west, and I had the feeling that it was what one would call in German a Hochzeitsstimmung, a feast oflove allover the country the main thing was the brotherly love allover the country, everybody was everybody else's brother, one could have everything anyone possessed, it did not matter The peasants threw open their cellars and handed out what they had That happened even in the restaurant and buffet at the railroad station I was very hungry, I had had nothing to eat for about twenty-four hours, and they had some sandwiches left, and when I asked what they cost, they said, "Oh nothing, just take them!" And when I first crossed the border into Germany, we were led into an enormous tent full of beer and sausages and bread and cheese, and we paid nothing, it was one great feast of love I was absolutely bewildered" (Visions Seminars '2, ed Claire Douglas [Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1997], pp 974-75) 138 The phrase "Soul murderer" had been used by Luther and Zwingli, and more recently by Daniel Paul Schreber in his 1903 Memoirs of my Nervous Illness, eds and tr Ida Macalpine and Richard Hunter (Folkestone: William Dawson, 1955) Jung discussed this work in 1907 in "On the psychology of dementia praecox" (CW 3), and drew Freud's attention to it In discussions concerning Schreber in the Association for Analytical Psychology on July 9 and 16 of 1915 following presentations by Schneiter, Jlmg drew attention to Gnostic parallels to Schreber's imagery (MAP, vol I., p 88f) 139 The reference is to the carnage of World War 1 140 This refers back to the vision in chapter 5, "Descent into Hell in the Future." In 1940 Jung wrote: "the threat to one's inmost self from dragons and serpents points to the danger of the newly acquired consciousness being swallowed up again by the instinctive soul, tlle unconscious" ("On the psychology of the child 原型 (archetype)," cw 9,1, §282) 141 The Corrected Draft has instead "to an end" (P.73) 142 In 1952, Jung wrote to Zwi Werblowsky concerning the intentional ambiguity of his writings: "The language I speak must be equivocal, that is, ambiguous, to do justice to psychic nature with its double aspect I strive consciously and deliberately for ambiguous expressions, because it is superior to unequivocalness and corresponds to the nature of being" (Letters 2, pp 70-71) 143 The Drqft continues: "Look at the images of the Gods that the ancients and the men of old left behind: their nature is ambiguous and equivocal" (p 87) 144 I John 4:16: "God is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him." 145 The Drqft continues: "Whoever reverses this word and others that I speak, is a player, since he doesn't respect the spoken word Know that you attain yourself from what you read in a book You read as much into a book as out of it" (p 88) 146 The Corrected Drqft has "birth--of-the-new [conception of a] God" (p 74) 147 The reference is to the Virgin Mary 148 See note 57, p 237- 149 This seems to refer to the wounding of Izdubar in Libel' Secundus, ch 8, "First Day" See below, p 278£ who wishes to be perfect, because he is an imitation of perfection.lso Imitation was a way of life when men still needed the heroic prototype lSI The monkey's manner is a way of life for monkeys, and for man as long as he is like a monkey Human apishness has lasted a terribly long time, but the time will come when a piece of that apishness will fall away from men That will be a time of salvation and the dove, and the eternal fire, and redemption will descend Then there will no longer be a hero, and no one who can imitate him Because from that time henceforth all imitation is cursed The new God laughs at imitation and discipleship He needs no imitators and no pupils He forces men through himself The God is his own follower in man He imitates himself We think that there is singleness within us, and communality outside us Outside of us is the communal in relation to the external, while singleness refers to us We are single if we are in ourselves, but communal in relation to what is outside us But if we are outside of ourselves, then we are single and selfish in the communal Our self suffers privation if we are outside ourselves, and thus it satisfies its needs with communality Consequently; communality is distorted into singleness If we are in ourselves, we fulfil the need of the sel£ we prosper, and through this we become aware of the needs of the communal and can fulfil them.ls2 If we set a God outside of ourselves, he tears us loose from the sel£ since the God is more powerful than we are Our self falls into privation But if the God moves into the sel£ he snatches us from what is outside US IS3 We arrive at singleness in ourselves So the God becomes communal in reference to what is outside us, but single in relation to us No one has my God, but my God has everyone, including myself The Gods of all individual men always have all other men, including myself So it is always only the one God despite his multiplicity You arrive at him in yourself and only through your self seizing you It seizes you in the advancement of your life The hero must fall for the sake of our redemption, since he is the model and demands imitation But the measure of imitation is fulfi1led ls4 We should become reconciled to solitude in ourselves and to the God outside of us If we enter into this solitude then the life of the God begins If we are in ourselves, then the space around us is free, but filled by the God Our relations to men go through this empty space and also through the God But earlier it went through selfishness since we were outside ourselves Therefore the spirit foretold to me that the cold of outer space will spread across the earth.lss With this he showed me in an image that the God will step between men and drive every individual with the whip of icy cold to the warmth of his own monastic hearth Because people were beside themselves, going into raptures like madmen MYSTERIUM ENCOUNTER I 245 Selfish desire ultimately desires itself You find yourself in your desire, so do not say that desire is vain If you desire yoursel£ you produce the divine son in your embrace with yourself Your desire is the father of the God, your self is the mother of the God, but the son is the new God, your master If you embrace your sel£ then it will appear to you as if the world has become cold and empty The cOlning God moves into this emptiness If you are in your solitude, and all the space around you has become cold and unending, then you have moved far from men, and at the same time you have come near to them as never before Selfish desire only" apparently led you to men, but in reality it led you away from them and in the end to yoursel£ which to you and to others was the most remote But now, if you are in solitude, your God leads you to the God of others, and through that to the true neighbor, to the neighbor of the self in others If you are in yoursel£ you become aware of your incapacity You will see how little capable you are of imitating the heroes and of being a hero yourself So you will also no longer force others to become heroes Like you, they suffer from incapacity Incapacity; too, wants to live, but it will overthrow your Gods [B P v (1]] I M ysteriutn [HI v(v)] Cap ix On the night when I considered the essence of the God, I became aware of an image: I lay in a dark depth An old man stood before me He looked like one of the old prophets.ls6 A black serpent lay at his feet Some distance away I saw a house with columns A beautiful maiden steps out of the door She walks uncertainly and I see that she is blind The old man waves to me and I follow him to the house at the foot of the sheer wall of rock The serpent creeps behind us Darkness reigns inside the house We are in a high hall with glittering walls A bright stone the color of water lies in the background As I look into its reflection, the images of Eve, the tree, and the serpent appear to me After this I catch sight of Odysseus and his journey on the high seas Suddenly a door opens on the right, onto a garden full of bright sunshine We step outside and the old man says to me, "Do you know where you are?" I: "I am a stranger here and everything seems strange to me, anxious as in a dream Who are you?" I: "The daughter of Herod, the bloodthirsty woman?" ISO The importance of wholeness above perfection is an important theme in Jung's later work Cf Aion, 1951, cw 9, 2, §123; Mysterium Coniunctionis, 1955/56, CW 14, §616 lSI In 1916, Jung wrote: "Man has one ability which, though it is of the greatest utility for collective purposes, is the most pernicious for 個體化歷程 (individuation), and that is imitation Collective psychology can hardly dispense with imitation" ("The structure of the unconscious," CW 7, §463) In "On the psychology of the child 原型 (archetype)" (1940) Jung wrote about the danger of identifying with the hero: "This identity is often very extremely stubborn and dangerous for the equilibrium of the soul If the identity can be dissolved, the figure of the hero, through the reduction of consciousness to a human level, can gradually be differentiated into a symbol of the self" (CW 9, I, §303) IS2 Jung dealt with the issue of the conflict between 個體化歷程 (individuation) and collectivity in 1916 in "個體化歷程 (Individuation) and collectivity" (CW 18) IS3 Cf Jung's comments in "個體化歷程 (Individuation) and collectivity" that "The individual must now consolidate himself by cutting himself off from God and becoming wholly himself Thereby and at the same time he also separates himself from society: Outwardly he plunges into solitude, but inwardly into Hell, distance from God" (CW 18, §II03) IS4 This is an interpretation of the murder of Siegfried in Liber Primus, ch 7, "Murder of the Hero." ISS This refers to the dream mentioned in the prologue, p 231 IS6 In Black Book 2 Jung noted: "with a gray beard and wearing an Oriental robe" (p 231) IS7 以利亞 (Elijah) was one of the prophets of the Old Testament He first appears in I Kings 17, bearing a message from God to Ahab, the Icing of Israel In 1953, the Carmelite Pere Bruno wrote to Jung asking how one established the existence of an 原型 (archetype) Jung replied by tiling 以利亞 (Elijah) as an example, describing him as a highly mythical personage, which did not prevent him from probably being a historical figure Drawing together descriptions of him throughout history; Jung described him as a "living 原型 (archetype)" who represented the 集體潛意識 (collective unconscious) and the self He noted that such a constellated 原型 (archetype) gave rise to new forms of assimilation, and represented a compensation on the part of the unconscious (CW 18, §§15I8-31) IS8 莎樂美 (Salome) was the daughter of Herodias and the step-daughter of King Herod In Matthew 14 and Mark 6, John the Baptist had told King Herod that it was unlawful for him to be married to his brother's wife, and Herod put him in prison 莎樂美 (Salome) (who is not named, but simply called the daughter of Herodias) danced before Herod on his birthday, and he promised to give her anything she wished for She requested the head of John the Baptist, who was then beheaded In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the figure of 莎樂美 (Salome) fascinated painters and writers, including Guillaume Apollinaire, Gustave Flaubert, Stephane Mallarme, Gustave Moreau, Oscar Wilde, and Franz von Stuck, featuring in many works See Bram Dijkstra, Idols ojPerversity: Fantasies ojFeminine Evil in Fin-de-Siecle Culture (New York: Oxford University Press, 1986), pp 379-98 fo1 vCr) Iv(v) 246 I LIBER PRIMUS fol V(V) /vi(r) daughter, the daughter of the prophet." I: "What miracle has united you?" c and my daughter are one." I am shocked, I am incapable of grasping it companions through eternity." I: "Forgive my astonishment, am I truly in the underworld?" S: "Do you love me?" I: "How can I love you? How do you come to this question? I see only one thing, you are 莎樂美 (Salome), a tiger, your hands are stained with the blood of the holy one How should I love you?" S: "You will love me." I: "I? Love you? Who gives you the right to such thoughts?" S: "I love you." I: "Leave me be, I dread you, you beast." S: "You do me wrong 以利亞 (Elijah) is my father, and he knows the deepest mysteries The walls of his house are made of precious stones His wells hold healing water and his eyes see the things of the future And what wouldn't you give for a single look into the infinite unfolding of what is to come? Are these not worth a sin for you?" I: "Your temptation is devilish I long to be back in the upper world It is dreadful here How oppressive and heavy is the air!" I: "But I do not belong to the dead I live in the light of day: Why should I torment myself here with 莎樂美 (Salome)? Do I not have enough of my own life to deal with?" I: "I cannot believe that you,·the prophet, can recognize her as a daughter and a companion Is she not engendered from hei- nous seed? Was she not vain greed and criminal lust?" I: ''And shamefully shed his precious blood." to the world She loved him, do you understand that? For         is my daughter." I: "Do you think that because she is your daughter, she loved the prophet in John, the father?" I: "But how did she love him? Do you call that love?" I: "I am horrified Who wouldn't be horrified if 莎樂美 (Salome) loved him?" been one since eternity." I: "You pose dreadful riddles How could it be that this unholy woman and you, the prophet of your God, could be one?" I: "What my eyes see is exactly what I cannot grasp You, 以利亞 (Elijah), who are a prophet, the mouth of God, and she, a bloodthirsty horror You are the symbol of the most extreme contradiction." I see how the black serpent writhes up the tree, and hides in the branches Everything becomes gloomy and doubtful 以利亞 (Elijah) rises, I follow and we go silently back through the hall I59 Doubt tears me apart It is all so unreal and yet a part of my longing remains behind Will I come again? 莎樂美 (Salome) loves me, do I love her? I hear wild music, a tambourine, a sultry moonlit night, the bloody-staring head of the holy onel6o-fear seizes me I rush out I am surrounded by the dark night It is pitch black all around me Who murdered the hero? Is this why 莎樂美 (Salome) loves me? Do I love her, and did I therefore murder the hero? She is one with the prophet, one with John, but also one with me? Woe, was she the hand of the God? I do not love her, I fear her Then the spirit of the depths spoke to me and said: "Therein you acknowledge her divine power." Must I love 莎樂美 (Salome)?161 [2] 162This play that I witnessed is my play, not your play It is my secret, not yours You cannot imitate me My secret remains virginal and my mysteries are inviolable, they belong to me and cannot belong to you You have your own 163 He who enters into his own must grope through what lies at hand, he must sense his way from stone to stone He must embrace the worthless and the worthy with the same love A mountain is nothing, and a grain oj sand holds kingdoms, or also nothing Judgment must fall from you, even taste, but above all pride, even when it is based on merit Utterly poor, miserable, unknowingly humiliated, go on through the gate Turn your anger against yourself, since only you stop yourself from looking and from liVing The mystery play is soft like air and thin smoke, and you are raw matter that is disturbingly heavy But let your hope, which is your highest good and highest ability, lead the way 159 Black Book 2 continues: "The crystal shines dimly I think again of the image of Odysseus, how he passed the rocky island of the Sirens on his lengthy odyssey Should I, should I not?" (P.74) 160 I.e., the head of John the Baptist 161 In the 1925 Seminar, Jung recounted: "I used the same technique of the descent, but this time I went much deeper The first time I should say I reached a depth of about one thousand feet, but this time it was a cosmic depth It was like going to the moon, or like the feeling of a descent into empty space First the picture was of a crater, or a ring-chain of mountains, and my feeling association was that of one dead, as if oneself were a victim It was the mood of the land of the hereafter I could see two people, an old man with a white beard and a young girl who was very beautiful I assumed them to be real and listened to what they were saying The old man said he was 以利亞 (Elijah) and I was.quite shocked, but she was even more upsetting because she was 莎樂美 (Salome) I said to myself that there was a queer mixture: 莎樂美 (Salome) and 以利亞 (Elijah), but as being the most reasonable of the lot, for he seemed to have a mind I was exceedingly doubtful about 莎樂美 (Salome) We had a long conversation but I did not understand it Of course I thought of the fact of my father being a clergyman as being the explanation of my having figures like this How about this old man then? 莎樂美 (Salome) was not to be touched upon It was only much later that I found her association with 以利亞 (Elijah) quite natural Whenever you take journeys like this you find a young girl with an old man" (ftnalytical Psychology, pp 63-64) Jung then refers to examples of this pattern in the work of Melville, Meyrink, Rider Haggard, and the Gnostic legend of Simon Magus (see note 154, p 359), Kundry and Klingsor from Wagner's Parsifal (see below, p 303), and Francesco Colonna's Hypnerotomachia In Memories, he noted: "In myths the snake is a frequent counterpart of the hero There are numerous accounts of their affinity .. Therefore the presence of the snake was an indication of a hero-myth" (p 206) Of 莎樂美 (Salome), he said: "莎樂美 (Salome) is an 阿尼瑪 (anima) figure She is blind because she does not see the meaning of things 以利亞 (Elijah) is the figure of the wise old prophet and represents the factor of intelligence and knowledge; 莎樂美 (Salome), the erotic element One might say that the two figures are personifications of Logos and Eros But such a definition would be excessively intellectual It is more meaningful to let the figures be what they were for me at that time-namely; events and experiences" (pp 206-7) In 1955/56, Jung wrote: "For purely psychological reasons I have elsewhere attempted to equate the masculine consciousness with the concept of Logos and the feminine with that of Eros By Logos I meant discrimination, judgment, insight, and by Eros I meant the placing into relation" (Mysterium Coniunctionis, CW 14, §224) On Jung's reading of 以利亞 (Elijah) and 莎樂美 (Salome) in terms of Logos and Eros respectively; see Appendix B, "Commentaries." 162 The Corrected Draft has: "Guiding Rejfection" (p 86) The Draft and Corrected Draft have "This, my friend, is a mystery play in which the spirit of the depths cast me I had recognized the-birth-ofthe-new-6od [the conception], and therefore the spirit of the depths allowed me to participate in the underworld ceremonies, which were sup- posed to instmct me about the God's intentions and works Through these rituals I was supposed to be initiated into the mysteries of redemption" (Corrected Draft, p 86) 163 The Draft continues: "In the renewed world you can have no outer possessions, unless you create them out of yourselves You can enter only into your own mysteries The spirit of the depths has other things to teach you than me I only have to bring you tidings of the new God and of the ceremonies and mysteries of his service But this is the way It is the gate to darkness" (p lOO).

---
