# Liber Secundus · Prologue: The Images of the Erring
## 第二冊 序言：迷途意象

**[EN]** 1/2 The Images of the Erring' [HI 1J 23nolite au dire verba prophetarum, qui prophetant vobis et decipiunt vos vision em cordis sui loquuntur, non de ore Domini. audivi quae dixerunt prophetae prophetantes in nomine mea mendacium, atque dicentes: somniavi, somniavi. usquequo istud est in corde prophetarum vaticinantium mendacium et prophetantium seductionem cordis sui? qui volunt facere ut obliviscatur populus meus nominis mei propter somnia eorum, quae narrant unusquisque ad proximum suum: sicut obliti sunt patres eorum nominis mei propter Baal. propheta, qui habet somnium, narret somnium et qui habet sermonem meum, loquatur sermonem meum vere: quid paleis ad triticum? dicit dominus. ["Hearken not unto the words of the prophets that prophesy unto you: they make you vain: they speak a vision of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of the Lord." (Jeremiah 23: 16)J ["I have heard what the prophets said, that prophesy lies in my name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed. How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets that prophesy lies? Yea, they are prophets of the deceit of their own heart; Which think to cause my people to forget my name by their dreams which they tell every man to his neighbour, as their fathers have forgotten my name for Baal. The prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a dream; and he that hath my word, let him speal( my word faithfully: What is the chaff to the wheat? saith the Lord" (Jeremiah 23: 25-28) J. / The Red One Cap. i. [HI 2 J5 The door of the Mysterium has closed behind me. I feel that my will is paralyzed and that the spirit of the depths possesses me. I know nothing about a way: I can therefore neither want this nor that, since nothing indicates to me whether I want this or that. I wait, without knowing what I'm waiting for. But already in the following night I felt that I had reached a solid point. 6 71 find that I am standing on the highest tower of a castle. The air tells me so: I am far back in time. My gaze wanders widely over solitary countryside, a combination of fields and forests. I am wearing a green garment. A horn hangs from my shoulder. I am the tower guard. I look out into the distance. I see a red point out there. It comes nearer on a winding road, disappearing for a while in forests and reappearing again: it is a horseman in a red coat, the red horseman. He is coming to my castle: he is already riding through the gate. I hear steps on the stairway, the steps creak, he knocks: a strange fear comes over me: there stands the Red One, his long shape wholly shrouded in red, even his hair is red. I think: in the end he will turn out to be the devil. The Red One: "I greet you, man on the high tower. I saw you from afar, looking and waiting. Your waiting has called me." I The Handwritten Draft has: "The Adventures of the Wandering" (P.353). THE RED ONE I 259. I: "Who are you?" T R.: "Who am I? You think I am the devil. Do not pass judgment.· Perhaps you can also talk to me without knowing who I am. What sort of a superstitious fellow are you, that immediately you think of the devil?" I: "If you have no supernatural ability, how could you feel that I stood waiting on my tower, looking out for the unknown and the new? My life in the castle is poor, since I always sit here and no one climbs up to me." T R.: "So what are you waiting for?" I: "I await all kiJ?ds of things, and especially I'm waiting for some of the world's wealth, which we don't see here, to come to me." T R.: "So, I have come to absolutely the right place. I have I wandered a long time through the world, seeking those like you who sit upon a high tower on the lookout for things unseen." I: "You make me curious. You seem to be a rare breed. Your appearance is not ordinary, and then too-forgive me-it seems to me that you bring with you a strange air, something worldly, something impudent, or exuberant, or-in fact-something pagan." T R.: "You don't offend me, on the contrary, you hit your nail on the head. But I'm no old pagan as you seem to think" I: "I don't want to insist on that. You are also not pompous and Latin enough. You have nothing classical about you. You seem to be a son of our time, but as I must remark, a rather unusual one. You're no real pagan, but the kind of pagan who runs alongside our Christian religion." T R.: "You're truly a good diviner of riddles. You're doing better than many others who have totally mistal(en me." I: "You sound cool and sneering. Have you never broken your heart over the holiest mysteries of our Christian religion?" T R.: "You're an unbelievably ponderous and serious person. Are you always so urgent?" I: "I would before God always like to be as serious and true to myself as I try to be. However, that certainly becomes difficult in your presence. You bring a certain gallows air with you, and you're bound to be from the black school of Salerno,s where pernicious arts are taught by pagans and the descendants of pagans." T R.: "You're superstitious and too German. You take literally what the scriptures say, otherwise you could not judge me so hat'd." / I: ''A hard judgment is the last thing I would want. But my nose does not play tricks on me. You're evasive, and don't want to reveal yourself What are you hiding?" (The Red One seems to get redder, his garments shine like glowing iron') T R.: "I hide nothing from you, you true-hearted soul. I simply amuse myself with your weighty seriousness and your comic veracity: This is so rare in our time, especially in men who have understanding at their disposal." I: "I believe you cannot fully understand me. You apparently compare me with those whom you knOw. But I must say to you for the sake of truth that I neither really belong to this time nor 2 In his essay on Picasso in 1932, Jung described the paintings of schizophrenics-meaning here only those in which a psychic disturbance would probably produce schizoid symptoms, rather than people who suffered from this condition-as follows: "From a purely formal point of view, the main characteristic is one ofjfagmentation, which expresses itself in the so-called lines of fracture, that is, a type of psychic fissure which runs right through the picture"(CW IS, §20B). 3 These passages in Latin from the Bible were cited by Jung in psychological Types (1921) (from Luther's Bible) and introduced with the following comments: "The form in which Christ presented the content of his unconscious to the world became accepted and was delared valid for all. Thereafter all individual fantasies became otiose and worthless, and were persecuted as heretical, as the fate of the Gnostic movement and of all later heresies testifies. The prophet Jeremiah is speaking just in this vein when he warns" (CW 6, §BI). 4 The Corrected Draft has: "V The Great Wandering I. The Red One" (p. 157). 5 This depicts Jung in the opening scene of this fantasy. 6 The previous paragraph was added in the Draft (p. 167). 7 December 26, 1913· B Salerno is a town in southwest Italy; founded by the Romans. Jung may have been referring to the Academia Segreta, which was established in the 1540s and promoted alchemy.

**[ZH]** 【榮格深度心理學對照】 1/2 The Images of the Erring' [HI 1J 23nolite au dire verba prophetarum, qui prophetant vobis et decipiunt vos vision em cordis sui loquuntur, non de ore Domini audivi quae dixerunt prophetae prophetantes in nomine mea mendacium, atque dicentes: somniavi, somniavi usquequo istud est in corde prophetarum vaticinantium mendacium et prophetantium seductionem cordis sui? qui volunt facere ut obliviscatur populus meus nominis mei propter somnia eorum, quae narrant unusquisque ad proximum suum: sicut obliti sunt patres eorum nominis mei propter Baal propheta, qui habet somnium, narret somnium et qui habet sermonem meum, loquatur sermonem meum vere: quid paleis ad triticum? dicit dominus ["Hearken not unto the words of the prophets that prophesy unto you: they make you vain: they speak a vision of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of the Lord." (Jeremiah 23: 16)J ["I have heard what the prophets said, that prophesy lies in my name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets that prophesy lies? Yea, they are prophets of the deceit of their own heart; Which think to cause my people to forget my name by their dreams which they tell every man to his neighbour, as their fathers have forgotten my name for Baal The prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a dream; and he that hath my word, let him speal( my word faithfully: What is the chaff to the wheat? saith the Lord" (Jeremiah 23: 25-28) J / 紅衣人 (The Red One) Cap i [HI 2 J5 The door of the Mysterium has closed behind me I feel that my will is paralyzed and that the spirit of the depths possesses me I know nothing about a way: I can therefore neither want this nor that, since nothing indicates to me whether I want this or that I wait, without knowing what I'm waiting for But already in the following night I felt that I had reached a solid point 6 71 find that I am standing on the highest tower of a castle The air tells me so: I am far back in time My gaze wanders widely over solitary countryside, a combination of fields and forests I am wearing a green garment A horn hangs from my shoulder I am the tower guard I look out into the distance I see a red point out there It comes nearer on a winding road, disappearing for a while in forests and reappearing again: it is a horseman in a red coat, the red horseman He is coming to my castle: he is already riding through the gate I hear steps on the stairway, the steps creak, he knocks: a strange fear comes over me: there stands the Red One, his long shape wholly shrouded in red, even his hair is red I think: in the end he will turn out to be the devil 紅衣人 (The Red One): "I greet you, man on the high tower I saw you from afar, looking and waiting Your waiting has called me." I The Handwritten Draft has: "The Adventures of the Wandering" (P.353) THE RED ONE I 259 I: "Who are you?" T R.: "Who am I? You think I am the devil Do not pass judgment.· Perhaps you can also talk to me without knowing who I am What sort of a superstitious fellow are you, that immediately you think of the devil?" I: "If you have no supernatural ability, how could you feel that I stood waiting on my tower, looking out for the unknown and the new? My life in the castle is poor, since I always sit here and no one climbs up to me." T R.: "So what are you waiting for?" I: "I await all kiJ?ds of things, and especially I'm waiting for some of the world's wealth, which we don't see here, to come to me." T R.: "So, I have come to absolutely the right place I have I wandered a long time through the world, seeking those like you who sit upon a high tower on the lookout for things unseen." I: "You make me curious You seem to be a rare breed Your appearance is not ordinary, and then too-forgive me-it seems to me that you bring with you a strange air, something worldly, something impudent, or exuberant, or-in fact-something pagan." T R.: "You don't offend me, on the contrary, you hit your nail on the head But I'm no old pagan as you seem to think" I: "I don't want to insist on that You are also not pompous and Latin enough You have nothing classical about you You seem to be a son of our time, but as I must remark, a rather unusual one You're no real pagan, but the kind of pagan who runs alongside our Christian religion." T R.: "You're truly a good diviner of riddles You're doing better than many others who have totally mistal(en me." I: "You sound cool and sneering Have you never broken your heart over the holiest mysteries of our Christian religion?" T R.: "You're an unbelievably ponderous and serious person Are you always so urgent?" I: "I would before God always like to be as serious and true to myself as I try to be However, that certainly becomes difficult in your presence You bring a certain gallows air with you, and you're bound to be from the black school of Salerno,s where pernicious arts are taught by pagans and the descendants of pagans." T R.: "You're superstitious and too German You take literally what the scriptures say, otherwise you could not judge me so hat'd." / I: ''A hard judgment is the last thing I would want But my nose does not play tricks on me You're evasive, and don't want to reveal yourself What are you hiding?" (紅衣人 (The Red One) seems to get redder, his garments shine like glowing iron') T R.: "I hide nothing from you, you true-hearted soul I simply amuse myself with your weighty seriousness and your comic veracity: This is so rare in our time, especially in men who have understanding at their disposal." I: "I believe you cannot fully understand me You apparently compare me with those whom you knOw But I must say to you for the sake of truth that I neither really belong to this time nor 2 In his essay on Picasso in 1932, Jung described the paintings of schizophrenics-meaning here only those in which a psychic disturbance would probably produce schizoid symptoms, rather than people who suffered from this condition-as follows: "From a purely formal point of view, the main characteristic is one ofjfagmentation, which expresses itself in the so-called lines of fracture, that is, a type of psychic fissure which runs right through the picture"(CW IS, §20B) 3 These passages in Latin from the Bible were cited by Jung in psychological Types (1921) (from Luther's Bible) and introduced with the following comments: "The form in which Christ presented the content of his unconscious to the world became accepted and was delared valid for all Thereafter all individual fantasies became otiose and worthless, and were persecuted as heretical, as the fate of the Gnostic movement and of all later heresies testifies The prophet Jeremiah is speaking just in this vein when he warns" (CW 6, §BI) 4 The Corrected Draft has: "V The Great Wandering I 紅衣人 (The Red One)" (p 157) 5 This depicts Jung in the opening scene of this fantasy 6 The previous paragraph was added in the Draft (p 167) 7 December 26, 1913· B Salerno is a town in southwest Italy; founded by the Romans Jung may have been referring to the Academia Segreta, which was established in the 1540s and promoted alchemy.

---
