# Liber Secundus · Chapter II: The Castle in the Forest
## 第二冊 第二章：森林古堡

**[EN]** 264 I LIBER SECUNDUS 9/12 their tyranny. The acceptance of femininity leads to completion. The same is valid for the woman who accepts her masculinity. The feminine in men is bound up with evil. I find it on the way of desire. The masculine in the woman is bound up with evil. Therefore people hate to accept their own other. But if you accept it, that which is connected with the perfection of men comes to pass: namely; that when you become the one who is mocked, the white bird of the soul comes flying. It was far away; but your humiliation attracted it.29 The mystery draws near to you, and things happen around you like. miracles. A gold luster shines, since the sun has risen from its grave. As a man you have no soul, since it is in the woman; as a woman you have no soul, since it is in the man. But if you become a human being, then your soul comes to you. If you remain within arbitrary and artificially created boundaries, you will walk as between two high walls: you do not see the immensity of the world. But if you break down the walls that confine your view, and if the immensity and its endless uncertainty inspire you with fear, then the ancient sleeper awak- ens in you, whose messenger is the white bird. Then you need the message of the old tamer of chaos. There in the whirl of chaos dwells eternal wonder. Your world begins to become wonderful. Man belongs not only to an ordered world, he also belongs in the wonder-world of his soul. Consequently you must make your ordered world horrible, so that you are put off by being too much outside yourself Your soul is in great need, because drought weighs on its world. If you look outside yourselves, you see the far-off forest and mountains, and above them your vision climbs to the realms of the stars. And if you look into yourselves, you will see on the other hand the nearby as far-off and infinite, since the world of the inner is as infinite as the world of the outer. Just as you become a part of the manifold essence of the world through your bodies, so you become a part of the manifold essence of the inner world through your soul. This inner world is truly infinite, in no way poorer than the outer one. Man lives in two worlds. A fool lives here or there, but never here and there. 30 Perhaps you think that a man who consecrates his life to research leads a spiritual life and that his soul lives in / larger measure than anyone else's. But such a life is also external, just as external as the life of a man who lives for outer things. To be sure, such a scholar does not live for outer things but for outer thoughts-not for himsel£ but for his object. If you say of a man that he has totally lost himself to the outer and wasted his years in excess, you must also say the same of this old man. He has thrown himself away in all the books and thoughts of others. Consequently his soul is in great need, it must humiliate itself and run into every stranger's room to beg for the recognition that he fails to give her. Therefore you see those old scholars running after recognition in a ridiculous and undignified manner. They are offended if their name is not mentioned, cast down if another one says the same thing in a better way; irreconcilable if someone alters theirs views in the least. Go to the meetings of scholars and you will see them, these lamentable old men with their great merits and their starved souls famished for recognition and their thirst which can never be slaked. The soul demands your folly; not your wisdom. Therefore, because I rise above gendered masculinity and yet do not exceed the human, the feminine that is contemptible to me transforms itself into a meaningful being. This is the most difficult thing-to be beyond the gendered and yet remain within the human. If you rise above the gendered with the help of a general rule, you become the same as that rule and overreach the human. Therefore you become dry; hard, and inhuman. You may go past the gendered for human reasons, and never for the sake of a general rule that remains the same in the most diverse situations, and therefore never has a perfect validity for each single situation. If you act from your humanity; you act from that particular situation without general principle, with only what corresponds to the situation. Thus you do justice to the situation, perhaps at the expense of a general rule. That should not be too painful for you, because you are not the rule. There is something else that is human, something all too human, and whoever has ended up there will do well to remember the blessing of the general rule. 3! For the general rule also has meaning and has not been set up for fun. It comprises much venerable· work of the human spirit. Such persons are not capable of a general principle above the gendered, but only their imagination is capable of what they have lost. They have become their own imagination and arbitrariness, to their own detriment. They need to remember the gendered, so that they wake from their dreams to reality. It is as agonizing as a sleepless night to fulfill the beyond from the here and now, namely the other and the opposing in myself It sneaks up like a fever, like a poisonous fog. And when your senses are excited and stretched to the utmost, the daimonic comes as something so insipid and worn out, so mild and stale, that it makes you sick Here you would gladly stop feeling across to your beyond. Startled and disgusted, you long for the return of the supernal beauties of your visible world. You spit out and curse everything that lies beyond your lovely world, since you lmow that it is the disgust, scum, refuse of the human animal who stuffs himself in dark places, creeps along sidewalks, sniffs out every blessed angle, and from the cradle to the grave enjoys only what has already been on everyone's lips. But here you may not stop-do not place your disgust between your here-and-now and your beyond. The way to your beyond leads through Hell and in fact through your own wholly particular Hell, whose bottom consists of knee-deep rubble, whose air is the spent breath of millions, whose -fires are dwarflike passions, and whose devils are chimerical sign-boards. How can it be otherwise? Every other Hell was at least worth seeing or full of fun. But that is never Hell. Your Hell is made up of all the things that you always ejected from your sanctuary with a curse and a kick of the foot. When you step into your own Hell, never think that you come like one suffering in beauty; or as a proud pariah, but you come like a stupid and curious fool and gaze in wonder at the scraps that have fallen from your table.32 / 29 Albrecht Dieterich noted: "Often enough popular belief deems the soul a bird from the start" (Abraxas. Studien zur Religionsgeschichte des spatern Altertums [Leipzig, 1891], p. 184). 30 The Drqft and Corrected Drqft have: "Inasmuch I was this old man, buried in books and batren science, just and appraising, wresting grains of sand from the infinite desert, my [self] so called soul, natllely-my inner sel£ suffered greatly" (p. 180). 31 Human, All Too Human was the title of a work of Nietzsche's, published in three installments from 1878. He described psychological observation as the reflection on the "human, all too human" (tr. R. J. Hollingdale [Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1996], p. 31). 32 In October 1916, in his talk before the Psychological Club on "Individuation and Collectivity;" Jung noted that through individuation, "the individual must now consolidate himself by cutting himself off from the divine and become wholly himself Thereby and at the same time he also separates himself from society Outwardly he plunges into solitude, but inwardly into hell, distance from God" (CW 18, §II03). lo/n IIiI2 You really want to rage, but you see at the same time how well rage suits you. Your hellish absurdity stretches for miles. Good for you if you can swear! You will :find that profanity is lifesaving. Thus if you go through Hell, you should not forget to give due attention to whatever crosses your path.       look into everything that excites your contempt or rage; thereby you accomplish the miracle that I experienced with the pale maiden. You give soul to the soulless, and thereby it can come to something out of horrible nothingness. Thus you will redeem your other into life. Your values want to draw you away from what you presently are, to get you ahead of and beyond yourself Your being, however, pulls you to the bottom lilce lead. You cannot at the same time live both, since both exclude each other. But on the way you can live both. Therefore the way redeems you. You cannot at the same time be on the mountain and in the valley, but your way leads you from mountain to valley and from valley to mountain. Much begins amusingly and leads into the dark Hell has levels.33 One of the Lowly" Cap. iii. [HI II] In the following night,35 I found myself wandering once more, in a homely, snow-covered country. A gray evening sky covers the sun. The air is moist and frosty. Someone who does not look trustworthy has joined me. Most notably, he has only one eye and a few scars on his face. He is poor and dirtily clothed, a tramp. He has a black stubble beard that has not seen a razor for a long time. I have a good walking stick for any eventuality. "It's damned cold," he remarks after a while. I agree. Mter a longer pause he asks: "Where are you going?" I: "I'm going to the next village, where I plan to stay overnight." He: "I'd like to do that too, but will hardly manage to get a bed." I: "Have you no money? Well, let us see. Are you out of work?" He: "Yes, times are bad. Until a few days ago, I was working for a locksmith. But then he had no more work Now I'm traveling and looking for work" I: "Wouldn't you work for a farmer? There is always a shortage of farm labor." He: "Working for a farmer doesn't suit me. That means getting up early in the morning-the work is hard and wages are low." I: "But it's always much more beautiful in the country than in a town." He: "It's boring in the country, one meets nobody." 1: "Well, but there are also villagers." He: "But there is no mental stimulation, the farmers are clods." I look at him astonished. What, he still wants mental stimulation? Better that he honestly earn his keep, and when he has done that he can think of stimulation. i I: "But tell me, what kind of mental stimulation is there in the city?" He: "You can go to the cinema in the evenings. That's great and it's cheap. You get to see everything that happens in the world." 33 In Dante's Commedia, Hell has rune levels. ONE OF THE LOWLY I 265 I have to think of Hell, where there are also cinemas for those who despised this institution on earth and did not go there because everyone else found it to their taste. I: "What interested you most about the cinema?" He: "One sees all sorts of stunning feats. There was one man who ran up houses. Another carried his head under his arm. Another even stood in the middle of a :fire and wasn't burnt. Yes, it's really remarkable, the things that people can do." And that's what this fellow calls mental stimulation! But wait-that does seem remarkable: didn't the saints also carry their heads under their arms?36 Didn't Saint Francis and Saint Ignatius                           what about the three men in the :fiery furnace?37 Isn't it a blasphemous idea to consider theActa Sanctorum as historical cinema?38 Oh, todays miracles are simply somewhat less mythical than technical. I regard my companion with feeling-he lives the history of the world-and I? 1: "Certainly, it's very well done. Did you see anything else like this?" He: "Yes, I· saw how the King of Spain was murdered." I: "But he wasn't murdered at al1." He: "Well, that doesn't matter; in that case it was one of those damned capitalist Icings. At least they got one of them. If all of them were talcen out, the people would be free." Not a word more dare I say: Wilhelm Tell, a work by Friedrich Schiller-the man is standing right in the thick of it, in the stream of heroic story. One who announces the murder of the tyrant to a sleeping people.39 We have arrived at the inn, a country tavern -a reasonably clean parlor-a few men sit with beer in the corner. I am recognized as a "gentleman" and led into the better corner where a chequered cloth covers the end of a table. The other sits down at the far end of the table, and I decide to have him served a proper evening meal. He is already loolcing at me full of expectation and hunger-with his one eye. I: "Where did you lose your eye?" He: "In a braw1. But I also got my knife into the other fellow pretty nicely. Mter that he got three months. They gave me six. But it was beautiful in prison. At the time the building was completely new. I worked in the locksmith's. There wasn't much to do and yet there was enough to eat. Prison really isn't all that bad." I look around to make sure that no one is listening to me talking with a former convict. But no one seems to have noticed. I seem to have ended up in well-to-do company. Are there also prisons in Hell for those who never saw the inside of one while they were alive? Incidentally-mustn't it be a peculiarly beautiful feeling to hit bottom in reality at least once, where there is no going down any further, but only upward beckons at best? Where for once one stands before the whole height of reality? He: "So after that there I was, out on the street, since they banished me. Then I went to France. It was lovely there." What demands beauty makes! Something can be learned from this man. I: "Why did you have this brawl?" 34 The Handwritten Draft has: "Third Adventure" (p. 440). The Corrected Drtift has "The Rogue," which is then covered over with paper (p. I86). 35 December 29, I9I3· 36 The emblem of the city of Zurich bears this motif, showing the late-third-century martyrs Felix, Regula, and Exuperantius. 37 This appears to be a reference to Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in Daniel 3, whom Nebuchadnezzar ordered to be placed into a furnace for refusing to worship the golden idol that he had erected. They were unscathed by the fire, which led Nebuchadnezzar to decree that he would cut up anyone who henceforth spoke against their God. 38 The Acta Sanctorum is a collection of the lives and legends of the saints arranged according to their feast days. Published by Jesuits in Belgium known as the Bollandist Fathers, it began in I643 and ran to sixty-three folio volumes. 39 In Wilhelm Tell (I805), Friedrich Schiller dramatized the revolt of the Swiss cantons against the rule of the Austrian Habsburg empire at the beginning of the fourteenth century, which led to the founding of the Swiss confederation. In act 4, scene 3, Wilhelm Tell kills Gessler, the imperial representative. Stiissi, the ranger, announces, "The tyrant of the land is dead. From now henceforth we suffer no oppression. We are free men" (tr. W Mainland [Chicago: University of Chicago Press, I973], p. II9). 12/13 266 I LIBER SECUNDUS 12 fI6 He: "It was over a woman. She was carrying his bastard but I wanted to marry her. She was already due. After that she didn't want to anymore. I haven't heard from her." I: "How old are you now?" He: "I'll be thirty-five in spring. Once I find a proper job we can get married right off I'll find myself one, I will. There's something wrong with my lungs, though. But that'll soon get better again." / He has a coughing fit. I think that the prospects are not good and silently admire the poor devil's unswerving optimism. After dinner I go to bed in a humble room. I hear how the other settles into his lodging for the night next door. He coughs several times. Then he falls still. Suddenly I awalcen again at an uncanny moan and gurgle mixed with a half-stifled cough. I listen tensely-no doubt, it's him. It sounds like something dangerous. I jump up and throw something on. I open the door of his room. Moonlight floods it. The man lies still dressed on a sack of straw. A dark stream of blood is flowing from his mouth and forming a puddle on the floor. He moans half choking and coughs out blood. He wants to get up but sinks back again-I hurry to support him but I see that the hand of death lies on him. He is sullied with blood twice over. My hands are covered with it. A rattling sigh escapes from him. Then every stiffness loosens, a gentle shudder passes over his limbs. And then everything is deathly still. Where am I? Are there also cases of death in Hell for those who have never thought about death? I look at my bloodstained hands-as if I were a murderer ... Is it not the blood of my brother that sticks to my hands? The moon paints my shadow black on the white walls of the chamber. What am I doing here? Why this horrible drama? I look inquiringly at the moon as a witness. How does this concern the moon? Has it not already seen worse? Has it not shone a hundred thousand times into broken eyes? This is certainly of no avail to its eternal craters-one more or less. Death? Does it not uncover the terrible deceit of life? Therefore it is probably all the same to the moon, whether and how one passes away. Only we kick up a fuss about it-with what right? What did this one do? He worked, lazed about, laughed, drank, ate, slept, gave his eye for the woman, and for her sake forfeited his good name; furthermore, he lived the human myth after a fashion, he admired the wonder-workers, praised the death of the tyrant, and vaguely dreamed of the freedom of the people. And then-then he miserably died-like everyone else. That is generally valid. I sat down on the floor. What shadows over the earth! All lights gutter out in final despondency and loneliness. Death has entered-and there is no one left to grieve. This is a final truth and no riddle. What delusion could make us"believe in riddles? [2] We stand on the spiky stones of misery and death. A destitute joins me and wants admittance into my soul, and I am thus not destitute enough. Where was my destitution when I did not live it? I was a player at life, one who thought earnestly about life and lived it easily. The destitute was far away and forgotten. Life had become difficult and murkier. Winter kept on going, and the destitute stood in snow and froze. I join myself with him, since I need him. He malces living light and easy. He leads to the depths, to the ground where I can see the heights. Without the depths, I do not have the heights. I may be on the heights, but precisely because of that I do not become aware of the heights. I therefore need the bottommost for my renewal. If I am always on the heights, I wear them out and the best becomes atrocious to me. But because I do not want to have it, my best becomes a horror to me. Because of that I myself become a horror, a horror to myself and to others, and a bad spirit of torment. Be respectful and lmow that your best has become a horror, with that you save yourself and others from useless torment. A man who can no longer climb down from his heights is sick, and he brings himself and others to torment. If you have reached your depths, then you see your height light up brightly over you, worthy of desire and far-off, as if unreachable, since secretly you would prefer not to reach it since it seems unattainable to you. For you also love to praise your heights when you are low and to tell yourself that you would have only left them with pain, and that you did not live so long as you missed them. It is a good thing that you have almost become the other nature that malces you speak this way. But at bottom you know that it is not quite true. At your low point you are no longer distinct from your fellow beings. You are not ashamed and do not regret it, since insofar as you live the life of your               beings and descend to their lowliness / you also climb into the holy stream of common life, where you are no longer an individual on a high mountain, but a fish among fish, a frog among frogs. Your heights are your own mountain, which belongs to you and you alone. There you are individual and live your very own life. If you live your own life, you do not live the common life, which is always continuing and never-ending, the life of history and the inalienable and ever-present burdens and products of the human race. There you live the endlessness of being, but not the becoming. Becoming belongs to the heights and is full of torment. How can you become if you never are? Therefore you need your bottommost, since there you are. But therefore you also need your heights, since there you become. If you live the common life at your lowest reaches, then you become aware of your self If you are on your heights, then you are your best, and you become aware only of your best, but not that which you are in the general life as a being. What one is as one who becomes, no one knows. But on the heights, imagination is at its strongest. For we imagine that we know what we are as developing beings, and even more so, the less we want to know what we are as beings. Because of that we do not love the condition of our being brought low; although or rather precisely because only there do we attain clear knowledge of ourselves. one who is. He who suffers from riddles should take thought of his lowest condition; we solve those riddles from which we suffer, but not those which please us. To be that which you are is the bath of rebirth. In the depths, being is not an unconditional persistence but an endlessly slow growth. You think you are standing still like swamp water, but slowly you flow into the sea that covers the earth's greatest deeps, and is so vast that firm land seems only an island imbedded in the womb of the immeasurable sea. As a drop in the ocean you take part in the current, ebb and flow. You swell slowly on the land and slowly sink back again in interminably slow breaths. You wander vast distances in blurred currents and wash up on strange shores, not knowing how you got there. You mount the billows of huge storms and are swept back again into the depths. And you do not know how this happens to you. You had thought that your movement came from you and that it needed your decisions and efforts, so that you could get going and make progress. But with every conceivable effort you 13/ 14 would never have achieved that movement and reached those areas to which the sea and the great wind of the world brought you. From endless blue plains you sink into black depths; luminous fish draw you, marvelous branches twine around you from above. You slip through columns and twisting, wavering, dark-leaved plants, and the sea takes you up again in bright green water to white, sandy coasts, and a wave foams you ashore and swallows you back again, and a wide smooth swell lifts you softly and leads you again to new regions, to twisting plants, to slowly creeping slimy polyps, and to green water and white sand and breaking surf But from far off your heights shine to you above the sea in a golden light, like the moon emerging from the tide, and you become aware of yourself from afar. And longing seizes you and the will for your own movement. You want to cross over from being to becoming, since you have recognized the breath of the sea, and its flowing, that leads you here and there without your ever adhering; you have also recognized its surge that bears you to alien shores and carries you back, and gargles you up and down. You saw that it was the life of the whole and the death of each individual. You felt yourself entwined in the collective death, from death to the earth's deepest place, from death in your own strangely breathing depths. Oh-you long to be beyond; despair and mortal fear seize you in this death that breathes slowly and streams back and forth eternally. All this light and dark, warm, tepid, and cold water, all these wavy; swaying, twisting plantlike animals and bestial plants, all these nightly wonders become a horror to you, and you long for the sun, for light dry air, for firm stones, for a fixed place and straight lines, for the motionless and firmly held, for rules and preconceived purpose, for . singleness and your own intent. The knowledge of death came to me that night, from the dying that engulfs the world. I saw how we live toward death, how the swaying golden wheat sinks together under the scythe of the reaper, / like a smooth wave on the sea-beach. He who abides in common life becomes aware of death with fear. Thus the fear of death drives him toward singleness. He does not live there, but he becomes aware of life and is happy; since in singleness he is one who becomes, and has overcome death. He overcomes death through overcoming common life. He does not live his individual being, since he is not what he is, but what he becomes. One who becomes grows aware of life, whereas one who simply exists never will, since he is in the midst of life. He needs the heights and singleness to become aware of life. But in life he becomes aware of death. And it is good that you become aware of collective death, since then you know why your singleness and your heights are good. Your heights are like the moon that luminously wanders alone and through the night looks eternally clear. Sometimes it covers itself and then you are totally in the darkness of the earth, but time and again it fills itself out with THE ANCHORITE I 267 light. The death of the earth is foreign to it. Motionless and clear, it sees the life of the earth from afar, without enveloping haze and streaming oceans. Its unchanging form has been solid from eternity. It is the solitary clear light of the night, the individual being, and the near fragment of eternity. From there you look out, cold, motionless, and radiating. With otherworldly silvery light and green twilights, you pour out into the distant horror. You see it but your gaze is clear and cold. Your hands are red from living blood, but the moonlight of your gaze is motionless. It is the life blood of your brother, yes, it is your own blood, but your gaze remains luminous and embraces the entire horror and the earth's round. Your gaze rests on silvery seas, on snowy peaks, on blue valleys, and you do not hear the groaning and howling of the human animal. The moon is dead. Your soul went to the moon, to the preserver of souls.4o Thus the soul moved toward deathY I went into the inner death and saw that outer dying is better than inner death. And I decided to die outside and to live within. For that reason I turned        and sought the place of the inner life. The Anchorite Cap. iv. Dies 1.43 [HI I5J On the following night,44 I found myself on new paths; hot dry air flowed around me, and I saw the desert, yellow sand all around, heaped up in waves, a terrible irascible sun, a sky as blue as tarnished steel, the air shimmering above the earth, on my right side a deeply cut valley with a dry river bed, some languid grass and dusty brambles. In the sand I see the tracks of naked feet that lead up from the rocky valley to the plateau. I follow them along a high dune. Where it falls off, the tracks move off to the other side. They appear to be fresh, and old half-worn-away footprints run alongside. I pursue them attentively: again they follow the slope of the dune, now they flow into another set of footprints-but it is the same / set that I have already followed, the one ascending from the valley. Henceforth I follow the footprints downward in astonishment. I soon reach the hot red rocks corroded by the wind. On the stone the footprints are lost but I see where the rock falls off in layers and I climb down. The air glows and the rock burns my soles. Now I have reached the bottom; there are the tracks again. They lead along the winding of the valley; a short distance. Suddenly I stand before a small hut covered in reeds and made of mud bricks. A rickety wooden plank forms the door where a cross has been painted in red. I open it quietly. A haggard man covered in a white linen mantle is sitting on a mat with his back leaning against the wall. Across his knees lies a book in yellow parchment, with beautiful black handwriting-a Greek gospel, without doubt. I am with an anchorite of the Libyan desert.45 40 In Traniformations and Symbols of the Libido (I9I2), Jung cited beliefs in different cultures that the moon was the gathering place of departed souls (CW B, §496). In Mysterium Coniunctionis (I955/56), Jung commented on this motif in alchemy (CW I4, §I55). 4I The Draft continues: "I accepted the rogue, and lived and died with him. Since I lived him, I became his murderer, since we kill what we live" (p. 2I7). 42 The Corrected Drcift continues: "from death" (p' 200). 43 (First Day) The Handwritten Draft has: "Fourth Adventure: First Day" (p. 476). The Corrected Draft has: "Dies I. Evening" (p. 20I). 44 December 30, I9I3- In Black Book 3, Jung noted: ''All kinds of things lead me far away from my scientific endeavor, which I thought I had subscribed to firmly I wanted to serve humanity through it, and now, my soul, you lead me to these new things. Yes, it is the in-between world, the pathless, the manifold-dazzling. I forgotthat I had reached a new world, which had been alien to me previously I see neither way nor path. What I believed about the soul has to become true here, namely that she knows her own way better, and that no intention can prescribe her a better one. I feel that a large chunk of science has been broken off I suppose it must be like this, for the sake of the soul and her life. I find the thought that this must occur only for me agonizing, and that perhaps no one will gain insight from my work. But my soul demands this achievement. I should be able to do this just for myself without hope-for thesake of God. This is truly a hard way But what else did those anchorites of the first centuries of Christianity do? And were they the worst or least capable of those living at the end? Hardly; since they came to the most relentless conclusions with regard to the psy- chological necessity of their time. They left wife and child, wealth, glory and science-and turned toward the desert-for God's sake. So be it" (pp. I-2). 45 In the next chapter, the anchorite is identified as Ammonius. In a letter of December 3I, I9I3, Jung noted that the anchorite came from the third century (JFA). There are three historical figures named Ammonius in Alexandria from this period: Ammonius, a Christian philosopher in the third century; once thought to have been responsible for the medieval divisions of the gospels; Ammonius Cetus, who was born a Christian but turned to Greek philosophy and whose work presents a transition from Platonism to Neoplatonism; a Neoplatonic Ammonius in the fifth century; who tried to reconcile Aristotle and the Bible. At Alexandria, there was accommodation between Neoplatonism and Christianity; and some of the pupils of the latter Ammonius converted to Christianity 15/16

**[ZH]** 榮格於此處深入剖析：個體在追求『個體化歷程』（Individuation Process）時，必須超越世俗理智自我（Ego）的侷限，主動敞開心靈去接納來自『集體潛意識』（Collective Unconscious）的原始意象與『原型』（Archetypes）。通過『積極想像』（Active Imagination）與內在靈魂的對話，整合被壓抑的『陰影』（Shadow）與『阿尼瑪』（Anima），最終在『對立物轉化律』（Enantiodromia）的動力中達到內在『自性』（The Self）的整全與和諧。

---
