# Liber Secundus · Chapter X: The Incantation
## 第二冊 第十章：咒語

**[EN]** 104/105 105/106 against me: for their worm shall not die, neither shall their fire be quenched."182 Thus do penance, consider what fell victim to death for the sake of Christianity, lay it before you and force yourself to accept it. For the dead need salvation. The number of the unredeemed dead has become greater than the number of living Christians; therefore it is time that we accept the dead.183 Do not throw yourself against what has become, enraged or benton destruction. What will you put in its place? Do you not know that if you are successful in destroying what has become, you will then turn the will of destruction against yourself? But anyone who makes destruction their goal will perish through self-destruction. Much rather respect what has become, since reverence is a blessing. Then turn to the dead/84 listen to their lament and accept them with love. Be not their blind spokesman/85 / [Image 105]186 / there are prophets who in the end have stoned themselves. But we seek salvation and hence we need to revere what has become and to accept the dead, who have fluttered through the air and lived like bats under our roofs since time immemorial. The new will be built on the old and the meaning of what has become will become manifold. Your poverty in what has become you will thus deliver into the wealth of the future. What seeks to distance you from Christianity and its holy rule of love are the dead, who could find no peace in the Lord since their uncompleted work has followed them. A new salvation is always a restoring of the previously lost. Did not Christ himself restore bloody human sacrifice, which better customs had expelled from sacred practice since days of old? Did he not himself reinstate the sacred practice of the eating of human. sacrifice? In your sacred practice that which earlier laws condemned will once again be included. However, just as Christ brought back human sacrifice and the eating of the sacrificed, all this happened to him and not to his brother, since Christ placed above it the highest law of love, so that no brother would come to harm as a result, but so that all could rejoice in the restoration. The same thing happened as in ancient times, but now under the law of love. 187 So if you have no reverence for what has become, you will destroy the law oflove.188 And what will become of you then? You will be forced to restore what was before, namely violent deeds, murder, wrongdoing, and contempt of your brother. And one will be alien to the other, and confusion will rule. 182 This is a citation from Isaiah 24:66. NOX SECUNDA I 297 Therefore you should have reverence for what has become, so that the law oflove may become redemption through the restoration of the lower and of the past, not perdition through the boundless mastery of the dead. But the spirits of those who die before their time will live, for the sake of our present' incompleteness, in dark hordes in the rafters of our houses and besiege our ears with urgent laments, until we grant them redemption through restoring what has existed since ancient times under the rule of love. What we call temptation is the demand of the dead who passed away prematurely and incomplete through the guilt of the good and of the laW. For no good is so complete that it could not do injustice and brealc what should not be broken. We are a blinded race. We live only on the surface, only in the present, and think only of tomorrow. We deal roughly with the past in that we do not accept the dead. We want to work only with visible success. Above all we want to be paid. We would consider it insane to do hidden work that does not visibly serve men. There is no doubt that the necessity of life forced us to prefer only those fruits one can taste. But who suffers more from the tempting and misleading influence of the dead than those who have gone wholly missing on the surface of the world? There is one necessary but hidden and strange work-a major work-which you must do in secret, for the sake of the dead. He who cannot attain his own visible field and vineyard is held fast by the dead, who demand the work of atonement from him. And until he has fulfilled ihis, he cannot get to his outer work, since the dead do not let him. He shall have to search his soul and act in stillness at their behest and complete the mystery; so that the dead will not let him. Do not look forward so much, but back and into yourself, so that you will not fail to hear the dead. It belongs to the way of Christ that he ascends with few of the living, but many of the dead. His work was the salvation of the despised and lost, for whose salce he was crucified between two criminals. I suffer my agony between two madmen. I enter the truth if I descend. Become accustomed to being alone with the dead. It is difficult, but this is precisely how you will discover the worth of your living companions. What the ancients did for their dead! You seem to believe that you can absolve yourself from the care of the dead, and from the work that they so greatly demand, since what is dead 183 The Drqft continues: "We were led by a prophet, whose proximity to God had driven him insane. He raged blindly against Christianity in his sermon, but he was the champion of the dead who had appointed him their spokesman and resounding trumpet. He shouted in a deafening voice so that many would hear him, and the power of his language also burned those who resisted death. He preached the struggle against Christianity. This was good, too" (p. 387). The reference is to Nietzsche. 184 The Draft continues: "whose champion you are" (P.388). 185 The Drqft continues: "like that raving prophet who did not know whose cause he was promoting, but instead believed himself to be speaking on his own behalf and thought he was the will of destruction" (p. 388). The reference is to Nietzsche. 186 In 1930, Jung anonymously reproduced this image in "Commentary on 'The Secret of the Golden Flower' "as a mandala painted by a male patient during treatment. He described it as follows: "In the centre, the white light, shining in the firmament; in the first circle, protoplasmic life-seeds; in the second, rotating cosmic principles which contain the four primary colors; in the third and fourth, creative forces working inward and outward. At the cardinal points, the masculine and feminine souls, both again divided into light and dark" (CW 13, A6). He reproduced it again in 1952 in "Concerning mandala symbolism" and wrote: "Picture by a middle-aged man. In the center is a star. The blue sky contains golden clouds. At the four cardinal points we see human figures: at the top, an old man in the attitude of contemplation; at the bottom, Loki or Hephaestus with red, flaming hair, holding in his hands a temple. To the right and left are a light and dark female figure. Together they indicate four aspects of the personality, or four archetypal figures belonging, as it were, to the periphery of the self The two female figures can be recognized without difficulty as the two aspects of the anima. The old man corresponds to the archetype of meaning, or of the spirit, and the dark chthonic figure to the opposite of the Wise Old Man, namely the magical (and sometimes destructive) Luciferian element. In alchemy it is Hermes Trismegistus versus Mercurius, the evasive 'trickster.' The circle enclosing the sky contains structures or organisms that look like protozoa. The sixteen globes painted in four colors just outside the circle derived originally from an eye motif and therefore stand for the observing and discriminating consciousness. Similarly; the ornaments in the next circle, all opening inward, are rather like ves- sels pouring out their content toward the center. [Fn: There is a similar conception in alchemy; in the Ripley Scrowle and its variants (Psychology and Alchemy, fig 257). There it is the planetary Gods who are pouring their qualities into the bath of rebirth.] On the other hand the ornaments along the rim open outward, as if to receive something from outside. That is, in the individuation process what were originally projections stream back 'inside' and are integrated into the personality again. Here, in contrast to Figure 25, :Above' and 'Below,' male and female, are integrated, as in the alchemical hermaphrodite" (CW 9, I, §682). On March 21,1950, he wrote to Raymond Piper concerning the same image: "The other picture is by an educated man about 40 years old. He produced this picture also as an at-first unconscious attempt to restore order in the emotional state he was in which had been caused by an invasion of unconscious contents" (Letters I, p. 550). 187 The Draft continues: "Not one title of Christian law is abrogated, but instead we are adding a new one: accepting the lament of the dead" (p. 390). 188 The Drqft continues: "It is nothing other than common evil desire, nothing but everyday temptation, as long as you do not know that it is what the dead demand. But as long as you know about the dead, you will understand your temptation. As long as it is no more than evil desire, what can you do about itr Damn it, regret it, arise 106/10B 29B I LIBER SECUNDUS 106/n2 is past. You excuse yourself with your disbelief in the immortality of the soul. Do you think that the dead do not exist because you have' devised the impossibility of immortality? You believe in your idols of words. The dead produce effects, that is sufficient. In the inner world there is no explaining away, as little as you can explain away the sea in the outer world. You must finally understand your purpose in explaining away, namely to seek protection. 189 I accepted the chaos, and in the following night, my soul approached me. I [Image 107] I N OX tertia l90 Cap. xvi. [HI loB] 191My soul spoke to me in a whisper, urgently and alarmingly: "Words, words, do not make too many words. Be silent and listen: have you recognized your madness and do you admit it? Have you noticed that all your foundations are completely mired in madness? Do you not want to recognize your madness and welcome it in a friendly manner? You wanted to accept every- thing. So accept madness too. Let the light of your madness shine, and it will suddenly dawn on you. Madness is not to be despised and not to be feared, but instead you should give it life." 1: "Your words sound hard and the task you set me is difficult." S: "If you want to find paths, you should also not spurn madness, since it malees up such a great part of your nature." 1: "I didn't know that this is so." S: "Be glad that you can recognize it, for you will thus avoid becoming its victim. Madness is a special form of the spirit and clings to all teachings and philosophies, but even more to daily life, since life itself is full of craziness and at bottom utterly illogical. Man strives toward ·reason only so that he can malee rules for himself. Life itself has no rules. That is its mystery and its unknown law. What you call knowledge is an attempt to impose something comprehensible on life." 1: "That all sounds very desolate, but nevertheless it prompts me to disagree." S: "You have nothing to disagree with-you are in the madhouse." There stands the fat little professor-had he spoken this way? And had I taken him for my soul? Prof: "Yes, my dear, you are confused. Your speech is completely incoherent." I: "I too believe that I've completely lost myself. Am I really crazy? It's all terribly confusing." Prof: "Have patience, everything will work out. Anyway, sleep welL" I: "Thank you, but I'm afraid." serious, and chaos is approaching. Is this the ultimate bottom? Is chaos also a foundation? If only there weren't these terrible waves. Everything breaks asunder like black billows. Yes, I see and understand: it is the ocean, the almighty nocturnal tide-a ship moves there-a large steamer-I'm just about to enter the smoking parlor-many people-beautiful clothes-they all look at me astonished-someone comes up to me and says: "What's the matter? You look just like a ghost! What happened?" 1: "Nothing-that is-I believe that I have gone crazy-the floor sways-everything moves-" Someone: "The sea is somewhat rough this evening, that's all-have a hot toddy-you're seasick." I: "You're right, I am seasick but in a special way-I'm really in a madhouse." Someone: "Well now; you're joking again, life is returning." 1: "Do you call that wit? Just now the professor pronounced me truly and utterly mad." The fat little professor is actually sitting at a green-covered table playing cards. He turns toward me when he hears me speale and laughs: "Well, where did you get to? Come here. Would you like a drink too? You're quite a character, I must say. You've put all the ladies in quite a flurry this evening." 1: "Professor, for me this is no longer a joke. Just now I was your patient-" The parlor erupts in unbridled laughter. Prof: "I hope that I haven't upset you too much." I: "Well, to be committed is no small                    The person to whom I had been speaking before suddenly comes up to me and looks me in the face. He is a man with a black beard, a tousled head of hair, and dark shining eyes. He speaks to me vehemently: "Something worse happened to me, it's five years now that I've been here." I realize that it is my neighbor, who has apparently awakened from his apathy and is now sitting on my bed. He goes on speaking fiercely and urgently: "But I am Nietzsche, only rebaptized, I am also Christ, the Savior, and appointed to save the world, but they won't let me." I: "Who won't let you?" The fool: "The devil. We are in Hell. But of course, you haven't noticed it yet. I didn't realize until the second year of my time here that the director is the devil." I: "You mean the professor? That sounds incredible." The fool: "You're an ignoramus. I was supposed to marry the mother of God long ago. 192 But the professor, that devil, has her in his power. Every evening when the sun goes down he gets her with child. In the morning before sunrise she gives birth to it. Then all the devils come together and kill the child in a gruesome I [Image 109]193 I manner. I distinctly hear his cries." 1: "But what you have told me is pure mythology." The fool: "You're crazy and understand nothing of it. You belong in the madhouse. My God, why does my family always shut me in with crazy people? I'm supposed to save the world, I'm the Savior!" He lies down again and sinles back into his lassitude. I clutch the sides of my bed to protect myself against the terrible waves. I stare at the wall, so that I can at least latch onto something with anew, only to stumble again and mock and loathe yourself, but definitely despise and pity yourself But if you lmow what the dead demand, temptation will become the wellspring of your best work, indeed of the work of salvation: When Christ ascended after completing his work, he led those up with him who had died prematurely and incomplete under the law of hardship and alienation and raw violence. The lamentations of the dead filled the air at the time, and their misery became so loud that even the living were saddened, and became tired and sick of life and yearned to die to this world already in their living bodies. And thus you too lead the dead to their completion with your work of salvation" (pp. 390-9I). IS9 The Drcift continues: "You employ old word magic to protect yourself through superstition for you are still a powerless child of the old wood. But we can see behind your word magic, and it is rendered feeble, and nothing protects you against the chaos other than acceptance" (P.395). 190 Third night. 191 January IS, 19I4. 192 In The Relations between the I and the Unconscious (I92S), Jung refers to a case of a man with paranoid dementia he encountered during his time at the Burgholzli who was in telephonic communication with the Mother of God (CW 7, §229). 193 Image legend: "This man of matter rises up too far in the world of the spirits, but there the spirit of the heart bores through him with a golden ray He falls with joy and disintegrates. The serpent, who is evil, could not remain in the world of spirits." 10B/no my eyes. A horizontal line runs along the wall, which is painted a darker color beneath. A radiator stands in front of it-it is a railing and I can see the sea beyond it. The line is the horizon. And there the sun now rises in red glory, solitary and magnificent-in it is a cross from which a serpent hangs-or is it a bull, slit open, as at the slaughterhouse, or is it an ass? I suppose it is really a ram with a crown of thorns-or is it the crucified one, myself? The sun of martyrdom has arisen and is pouring bloody rays over the sea. This spectacle lasts a long time, the sun rises higher, its rays grow brighterl94 and hotter and the sun burns down white on a blue sea. The swell has subsided. A charitable and quiet summer dawn lies on the shimmering sea. The salty smell of water rises up. A faint wide surf brealcs on the sand with a dull thunder, and returns incessantly, twelve times, the strokes of the world clock95-the twelfth hour is complete. And now silence enters. No noise, no breeze. Everything is rigid and deathly still. I wait, secretlyanx- ious. I see a tree arise from the sea. Its crown reaches to Heaven and its roots reach down into Hell. I am completely alone and dis- heartened and gaze from afar. It is as if all life had flown from me and completely passed into the incomprehensible and fearful. I am utterly weak and incapable. "Salvation," I whisper. A strange voice spealcs: "There is no salvation here,196 you must remain calm, or you will disturb the others. It is night and the other people want to sleep." I see, it's the attendant. The room is dimly lit by a weak lamp and sadness weighs on the room. 1: "I couldn't find the way." He says: "You don't need to find a way now." He speaks the truth. The way, or whatever it might be, on which people go, is our way, the right way. There are no paved ways into the future. We say that it is this way, and it is. We build roads by going on. Our life is the truth that we seek Only my life is the truth, the truth above all. We create the truth by living it. [2] This is the night in which all the dams broke, where what was previously solid moved, where the stones turned into serpents, and everything living froze. Is this a web of words? If it is, it is a hellish web for those caught in it. There are hellish webs of words, only words, but what are words? Be tentative with words, value them well, take safe words, words without catches, do not spin them with one another so that no webs arise, for you are the first who is ensnared in them.197 For NOX TERTIA I 299 words have meanings. With words you pull up the underworld. Word, the paltriest and the mightiest. In words the emptiness and the fullness flow together. Hence the word is an image of God. The word is the greatest and the smallest that man created, just as what is created through man is the greatest and the smallest. So if I fall prey to the web of words, I fall prey to the greatest and the smallest. I am at the mercy of the sea, of the inchoate waves that are forever changing place. Their essence is movement and movement is their order. He who strives against waves is exposed to the arbitrary. The work of men is steady but it swims upon chaos. The striving of men seems like lunacy to him who comes from the sea. But men consider him mad.198 He who comes from the sea is sick He can hardly bear the gaze of men. For to him they all seem to be drunk and foolish from sleep-inducing poisons. They want to come to your rescue, and as for accepting help, for sure you would like less of that, rather than swindling your way into their company and being completely like one who has never seen the chaos but only talks about it. But for him who has seen the chaos, there.is no more hiding, because he knows that the bottom sways and knows what this swaying means. He has seen the order and the disorder of the endless, he knows the unlawful laws. He knows the sea and can never forget it. The chaos is terrible: days full of lead, nights full of horror. But just as Christ knew that he was the way, the truth, and the life, in that the new torment and the renewed salvation came into the world through him,199 I know that chaos must come over men, and that the hands of those who unknowingly and unsuspectingly break through the thin walls that separate us from the sea are busy. For this is our way, our truth, and our life. Just as the disciples of Christ recognized that God had become flesh and lived among them as a man, we now recognize that the anointed of this time is a God who does not appear in the flesh; he is no )nan and yet is a son of man, but in spirit and not in flesh; hence he can be born only through the spirit of men as the conceiving womb of the God.2oO What is done to this God you do to the lowest in yoursel£ under the law of love according to which nothing is cast out. For how else should your lowest be saved from depravity? / [Image III]201 / Who should accept the lowest in you, if you do not? But he who does it not from love 194 Jung's marginal note to the calligraphic volume: "22.3-1919." This seems to refer to when this passage was transcribed into the calligraphic volume. 195 In Psychology and Religion (1938), Jung commented on the symbolism of the world clock (CW II, §IIoff). 196 In Dante's Commedia, the following lines are inscribed over the gates of Hell: "Abandon every hope, you who enter" (canto 3, line 9). See The Divine Comedy of Dante Aligheri, vol. I., ed. and tr. Robert Durling (New York: Oxford University Press), p. 55. 197 The Draft continues: "For words are not merely words, but have meanings for which they are set. They attract these meanings like daimonic shadows" (P.403). 198 The Drift continues: "Once you have seen the chaos, look at your face: you saw more than death and the grave, you saw beyond and your face bears the mark of one who has seen chaos and yet was a man. Many cross over, but they do not see the chaos; however the chaos sees them, stares at them, and imprints its features on them. And they are marked forever. Call such a one mad, for that is what he is; he has become a wave and has lost his human side, his constancy" (p. 404). 199 The preceding sentence is crossed out in the Corrected Drift, and Jung has written in the margin: "cpIAHMQN identification" (P.405). 200 Jung elaborated on this issue many years later in Answer to] ob (1952), where he studied the historical transformation of Judeo- Christian God images. A major theme in this is the continued incarnation of God after Christ. Commenting on the Book of Revelation, Jung argued that: "Ever since John the apocalyptist experienced . for the first time (perhaps unconsciously) the conflict into which Christianity inevitably leads, mankind is burdened with this: God wanted and wants to become man" (CW II, §739). In Jung's view, there was a direct link between John's views and Eckhart's views: "This disturbing invasion engendered in him the image of the divine consort, whose image lives in every man: of the child, whom Meister Eckhart also saw in the vision. It was he who knew that God alone in his Godhead is not in a state of bliss, but must be born in the human soul. The incarnation in Christ is the prototype which is continually being transferred to the creature by the Holy Ghost" (Ibid., §741). In contemporary times, Jung gave great importance to the papal bull of the Assumptio Maria. He held that it "points to the hieros gamos in the pleroma, and this in turn implies, as we have said, the future birth of the divine child, who, in accordance with the divine trend toward incarnation, will choose as his birthplace the empirical man. This metaphysical process is known as the individuation process in the psychology of the unconscious" (Ibid., §755). Through being identified with the continued incarnation of God in the soul, the process of individuation found its ultimate significance. On May 3, 1958, Jung wrote to Morton Kelsey: "The real history of the world seems to be the progressive incarnation of the deity" (Letters 2, p. 436). 201 Image legend: "The serpent fell dead unto the earth. And that was the umbilical cord of a new birth." The serpent is similar to the serpent in Image 109. In Black Book 7 on January 27,1922, Jung's soul refers to images 109 and III. His soul says: "the giant cloud of eternal night is awful. I see a yellow shining stroke on this cloud from the top left-hand corner in the irregular shape of a streak of lightning, and behind it an indeterminate reddish light in the cloud. It does not move. I see a dead black serpent lying beneath the cloud and the lightning. It does not move. Beneath the cloud I see a dead black serpent and the thunderbolt stuck in its head like a spear. A hand, as large as that of a God, has thrown the spear and everything has frozen to a gloomy image. What is it trying to say. Do you recall that image that you painted years ago, the one in which the black and red man with the black and white serpent is struck by the ray of God [i.e., image 109]? This image seems to follow that one, because afterward you also painted the dead serpent [i.e., image III] and did you not behold a gloomy image this morning, of that man in the white robe and a black face, like a mummy?" I: "How now, what is this supposed to mean?" Soul: "It is an image of your self" (p. 57). IIO/II2 300 I LIBER SECUNDUS U2/U4 but from pride, selfishness, and greed, is damned. None of the damnation is cast out either.202 If you accept the lowest in you, suffering is unavoidable, since you do the base thing and build up what lay in ruin. There are many graves and corpses in us, an evil stench of decomposition.203 Just as Christ through the torment· of sanctification subjugated the flesh, so the God of this time through the torment of sanctification will subjugate the spirit. Just as Christ tormented the flesh through the spirit, the God of this time will torment the spirit through the flesh. For our spirit has become an impertinent whore, a slave to words created by men and no longer the divine word itself204 The lowest in you is the source of mercy: We take this sickness upon ourselves, the inability to find peace, the baseness, and the contemptibility so that the God can be healed and radiantly ascend, purged of the decomposition of death and the mud of the underworld. The despicable prisoner will ascend to his salvation shining and wholly healed.205 Is there a suffering that would be too great to want to undergo for our God? You only see the one, and do not notice the other. But when there is one, so there is also another and that is the lowest in you. But the lowest in you is also the eye of the evil that stares at you and looks at you coldly and sucks your light down into the dark abyss. Bless the hand that keeps you up there, the smallest humanity; the lowest living thing. GE:ite a few would prefer death. Since Christ imposed bloody sacrifice on humanity; the renewed God will also not spare bloodshed. Wherefore art thou red in thine apparel, and thy garments like him that treadeth it). the winefat? I have trodden the winepress alone and no one is with me. I have trodden myself down in my anger, and trampled upon myself in my fury. Hence my blood has spattered my clothes, and I have stained my robe. For I have afforded myself a day of vengeance, and the year to redeem myself has come. And I looked around, and there was none to help; and I wondered that there was no one who stood by me: therefore my own arm must save me, and my fury upheld me. And I trod myself down in my rage, and made myself drunk in my fury, and spilt my blood on the earth.206 For I took my misdeed upon myself so that the God would be healed. Just as Christ said that he did not come to mal(e peace but brought the sword/07 so he in whom Christ becomes complete will not give himself peace, but a sword. He will rebel against himself and one will be turned against the other in him. He will also hate that which he loves in himself He will be castigated in himself mocked, and given over to the torment of crucifixion, and no one will aid him or soothe his torment. Just as Christ was crucified between the two thieves, our lowest lies on either side of our way. And just as one thief went to Hell and the other rose up to Heaven, the lowest in us will be sundered in two halves on the day of our judgment. The one is destined for damnation and death, and the other will rise up. 208 But it will tal(e a long time until you see what is destined for death and what is destined for life, since the lowest in you is still unseparated and one, and in a deep sleep. If I accept the lowest in me, I lower a seed into the ground of Hell. The seed is invisibly small, but the tree of my life grows from it and conjoins the Below with the Above. At both ends there is fire and blazing embers. The Above is fiery and the Below is fiery. Between the unbearable fires grows your life. You hang between these two poles. In an immeasurably frightening movement the stretched hanging welters up and down.209 We thus fear our lowest, since that which one does not possess is forever united with the chaos and takes part in its mysterious ebb and flow. Insofar as I accept the lowest in me-precisely that red glowing sun of the depths-and thus fall victim to the confusion of chaos, the upper shining sun also rises. Therefore he who strives for the highest finds the deepest. To deliver the men of his time from the stretched hanging, Christ effectively took this torment upon himself and taught them: "Be crafty like serpents and guileless like doves."210 For craftiness counsels against chaos, and guilelessness veils its 202 The Draft continues: "But who does this under the law oflove will move beyond suffering, sit at the table with the anointed and behold God's glory" (P.406). 203 The Draft continues: "But God will come to those who take their suffering upon themselves under the law of love, and he will establish a new bond with them. For it is predicted that the anointed is supposed to return, but no longer in the flesh, but in the spirit. And just as Christ guided the flesh upward through the torment of salvation, the anointed of this time will guide the spirit upward through the torment of salvation" (P.407). 204 The Draft continues: "The lowest in you is the stone that the builders discarded. It will become the cornerstone. The lowest in you will grow like a grain of rice from dry soil, shooting up from the sand of the most barren desert, and rise and stand very tall. Salvation comes to you from the discarded. Your sun will rise from muddy swamps. Like all others, you are annoyed at the lowest in you because its guise is uglier than the image of yourself that you love. The lowest in you is the most despised and least valued, full of pain and sickness. He is despised so much that one hides one's face from him, that he is held in no respect whatsoever, and it is even said that he does not exist because one is ashamed for his sake and despises oneself In truth, it carries our sickness and is ridden with our pain. We consider him the one who is plagued and punished by God on account of his despicable ugliness. But he is wounded, and exposed to madness, for the sake of our own justice; he is crucified and suppressed for the sake of our own beauty We leave him to punishment and martyrdom that we might have peace. But we will take his sickness upon ourselves, and salvation will come to us through our own wounds" (pp. 407-8). The first lines refer to Psalm II8:22. The passage echoes Isaiah 53, which Jung cited above, p. 229. 205 The Draft continues: "Why should our spirit not take upon itself torment and restlessness for the salce of sanctification? But all this will come over you, for I already hear the steps of those who bear the keys to open the gates of the depths. The valleys and mountains that resound with the noise of battles, the lamentation arising from innumerable inhabited sites is the omen of what is to come. My visions are truth for I have beheld what is to come. But you are not supposed to believe me, because otherwise you will stray from your path, the right one, that leads you safely to your suffering that I have seen ahead. May no faith mislead you, accept your utmost unbelief it guides you on your way. Accept your betrayal and infidelity, your arrogance and your better knowledge, and you will reach the safe and secure route that leads you to your lowest; and what you do to your lowest, you will do to the anointed. Do not forget this: Nothing of the law of love is abrogated, but much has been added to it. Cursed unto himself is he who kills the one capable of love in himself for the horde of the dead who died for the salce of love is immeasurable, and the mightiest among these dead is Christ the Lord. Holding these dead in reverence is wisdom. Purgatory awaits those who murder the one in themselves who is capable oflove. You will lament and rave against the impossibility of uniting the lowest in you with the law of those who love. I say to you: Just as Christ subjugated the nature of the physical to the spirit under the law of the word of the father, the nature of the spirit shall be subjugated to the physical under the law of Christ's completed work of salvation through love. You are afraid of the danger; but know that where God is nearest, the danger is greatest. How can you recognize the anointed one without any danger? Will one ever acquire a precious stone with a copper coin? The lowest in you is what endangers you. Fear and doubt guard the gates of your way. The lowest in you is the unforeseeable for you cannot see it. Thus shape and behold it. You will thus open the floodgates of chaos. The sun arises from the darkest, dampest, and coldest. The unknowing people of this time only see the one; they never see the other approaching them. But if the one exists, so does the other" (pp. 409-10). Jung here implicitly cites the opening lines of Friedrich Holderlin's "Patmos," which was one of his favorite poems: "Near is / the God, and hard to grasp. / But where danger is, / salvation also grows." Jung discussed this in Traniformations and Symbols of the Libido (1912, CW B, §65If). 206 These lines actually cite Isaiah 63:2-6. 207 Matthew 10:34: "Think not that I am come to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword." 208 In Answer to}ob (1952), Jung wrote of Christ on the cross: "This picture is completed by the two thieves, one whom goes down to hell, the other into paradise. One could hardly imagine a better representation of the oppositeness of the central Christian symbol" (CW II, §659). 209 Dieterich notes that in Plato's Gorgias, there is the motif that transgressors hang in Hades (Nekyia, p. II7). In Jung's list of references at the back of his copy ofNekyia, he noted: "II7 hanging." 210 Matthew 10:16: "Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves."

**[ZH]** 【榮格深度心理學對照】 104/105 105/106 against me: for their worm shall not die, neither shall their fire be quenched."182 Thus do penance, consider what fell victim to death for the sake of Christianity, lay it before you and force yourself to accept it For the dead need salvation The number of the unredeemed dead has become greater than the number of living Christians; therefore it is time that we accept the dead.183 Do not throw yourself against what has become, enraged or benton destruction What will you put in its place? Do you not know that if you are successful in destroying what has become, you will then turn the will of destruction against yourself? But anyone who makes destruction their goal will perish through self-destruction Much rather respect what has become, since reverence is a blessing Then turn to the dead/84 listen to their lament and accept them with love Be not their blind spokesman/85 / [Image 105]186 / there are prophets who in the end have stoned themselves But we seek salvation and hence we need to revere what has become and to accept the dead, who have fluttered through the air and lived like bats under our roofs since time immemorial The new will be built on the old and the meaning of what has become will become manifold Your poverty in what has become you will thus deliver into the wealth of the future What seeks to distance you from Christianity and its holy rule of love are the dead, who could find no peace in the Lord since their uncompleted work has followed them A new salvation is always a restoring of the previously lost Did not Christ himself restore bloody human sacrifice, which better customs had expelled from sacred practice since days of old? Did he not himself reinstate the sacred practice of the eating of human sacrifice? In your sacred practice that which earlier laws condemned will once again be included However, just as Christ brought back human sacrifice and the eating of the sacrificed, all this happened to him and not to his brother, since Christ placed above it the highest law of love, so that no brother would come to harm as a result, but so that all could rejoice in the restoration The same thing happened as in ancient times, but now under the law of love 187 So if you have no reverence for what has become, you will destroy the law oflove.188 And what will become of you then? You will be forced to restore what was before, namely violent deeds, murder, wrongdoing, and contempt of your brother And one will be alien to the other, and confusion will rule 182 This is a citation from Isaiah 24:66 NOX SECUNDA I 297 Therefore you should have reverence for what has become, so that the law oflove may become redemption through the restoration of the lower and of the past, not perdition through the boundless mastery of the dead But the spirits of those who die before their time will live, for the sake of our present' incompleteness, in dark hordes in the rafters of our houses and besiege our ears with urgent laments, until we grant them redemption through restoring what has existed since ancient times under the rule of love What we call temptation is the demand of the dead who passed away prematurely and incomplete through the guilt of the good and of the laW For no good is so complete that it could not do injustice and brealc what should not be broken We are a blinded race We live only on the surface, only in the present, and think only of tomorrow We deal roughly with the past in that we do not accept the dead We want to work only with visible success Above all we want to be paid We would consider it insane to do hidden work that does not visibly serve men There is no doubt that the necessity of life forced us to prefer only those fruits one can taste But who suffers more from the tempting and misleading influence of the dead than those who have gone wholly missing on the surface of the world? There is one necessary but hidden and strange work-a major work-which you must do in secret, for the sake of the dead He who cannot attain his own visible field and vineyard is held fast by the dead, who demand the work of atonement from him And until he has fulfilled ihis, he cannot get to his outer work, since the dead do not let him He shall have to search his soul and act in stillness at their behest and complete the mystery; so that the dead will not let him Do not look forward so much, but back and into yourself, so that you will not fail to hear the dead It belongs to the way of Christ that he ascends with few of the living, but many of the dead His work was the salvation of the despised and lost, for whose salce he was crucified between two criminals I suffer my agony between two madmen I enter the truth if I descend Become accustomed to being alone with the dead It is difficult, but this is precisely how you will discover the worth of your living companions What the ancients did for their dead! You seem to believe that you can absolve yourself from the care of the dead, and from the work that they so greatly demand, since what is dead 183 The Drqft continues: "We were led by a prophet, whose proximity to God had driven him insane He raged blindly against Christianity in his sermon, but he was the champion of the dead who had appointed him their spokesman and resounding trumpet He shouted in a deafening voice so that many would hear him, and the power of his language also burned those who resisted death He preached the struggle against Christianity This was good, too" (p 387) The reference is to Nietzsche 184 The Draft continues: "whose champion you are" (P.388) 185 The Drqft continues: "like that raving prophet who did not know whose cause he was promoting, but instead believed himself to be speaking on his own behalf and thought he was the will of destruction" (p 388) The reference is to Nietzsche 186 In 1930, Jung anonymously reproduced this image in "Commentary on 'The Secret of the Golden Flower' "as a mandala painted by a male patient during treatment He described it as follows: "In the centre, the white light, shining in the firmament; in the first circle, protoplasmic life-seeds; in the second, rotating cosmic principles which contain the four primary colors; in the third and fourth, creative forces working inward and outward At the cardinal points, the masculine and feminine souls, both again divided into light and dark" (CW 13, A6) He reproduced it again in 1952 in "Concerning mandala symbolism" and wrote: "Picture by a middle-aged man In the center is a star The blue sky contains golden clouds At the four cardinal points we see human figures: at the top, an old man in the attitude of contemplation; at the bottom, Loki or Hephaestus with red, flaming hair, holding in his hands a temple To the right and left are a light and dark female figure Together they indicate four aspects of the personality, or four archetypal figures belonging, as it were, to the periphery of the self The two female figures can be recognized without difficulty as the two aspects of the 阿尼瑪 (anima) The old man corresponds to the 原型 (archetype) of meaning, or of the spirit, and the dark chthonic figure to the opposite of the Wise Old Man, namely the magical (and sometimes destructive) Luciferian element In alchemy it is Hermes Trismegistus versus Mercurius, the evasive 'trickster.' The circle enclosing the sky contains structures or organisms that look like protozoa The sixteen globes painted in four colors just outside the circle derived originally from an eye motif and therefore stand for the observing and discriminating consciousness Similarly; the ornaments in the next circle, all opening inward, are rather like ves- sels pouring out their content toward the center [Fn: There is a similar conception in alchemy; in the Ripley Scrowle and its variants (Psychology and Alchemy, fig 257) There it is the planetary Gods who are pouring their qualities into the bath of rebirth.] On the other hand the ornaments along the rim open outward, as if to receive something from outside That is, in the 個體化歷程 (individuation) process what were originally projections stream back 'inside' and are integrated into the personality again Here, in contrast to Figure 25, :Above' and 'Below,' male and female, are integrated, as in the alchemical hermaphrodite" (CW 9, I, §682) On March 21,1950, he wrote to Raymond Piper concerning the same image: "The other picture is by an educated man about 40 years old He produced this picture also as an at-first unconscious attempt to restore order in the emotional state he was in which had been caused by an invasion of unconscious contents" (Letters I, p 550) 187 The Draft continues: "Not one title of Christian law is abrogated, but instead we are adding a new one: accepting the lament of the dead" (p 390) 188 The Drqft continues: "It is nothing other than common evil desire, nothing but everyday temptation, as long as you do not know that it is what the dead demand But as long as you know about the dead, you will understand your temptation As long as it is no more than evil desire, what can you do about itr Damn it, regret it, arise 106/10B 29B I LIBER SECUNDUS 106/n2 is past You excuse yourself with your disbelief in the immortality of the soul Do you think that the dead do not exist because you have' devised the impossibility of immortality? You believe in your idols of words The dead produce effects, that is sufficient In the inner world there is no explaining away, as little as you can explain away the sea in the outer world You must finally understand your purpose in explaining away, namely to seek protection 189 I accepted the chaos, and in the following night, my soul approached me I [Image 107] I N OX tertia l90 Cap xvi [HI loB] 191My soul spoke to me in a whisper, urgently and alarmingly: "Words, words, do not make too many words Be silent and listen: have you recognized your madness and do you admit it? Have you noticed that all your foundations are completely mired in madness? Do you not want to recognize your madness and welcome it in a friendly manner? You wanted to accept every- thing So accept madness too Let the light of your madness shine, and it will suddenly dawn on you Madness is not to be despised and not to be feared, but instead you should give it life." 1: "Your words sound hard and the task you set me is difficult." S: "If you want to find paths, you should also not spurn madness, since it malees up such a great part of your nature." 1: "I didn't know that this is so." S: "Be glad that you can recognize it, for you will thus avoid becoming its victim Madness is a special form of the spirit and clings to all teachings and philosophies, but even more to daily life, since life itself is full of craziness and at bottom utterly illogical Man strives toward ·reason only so that he can malee rules for himself Life itself has no rules That is its mystery and its unknown law What you call knowledge is an attempt to impose something comprehensible on life." 1: "That all sounds very desolate, but nevertheless it prompts me to disagree." S: "You have nothing to disagree with-you are in the madhouse." There stands the fat little professor-had he spoken this way? And had I taken him for my soul? Prof: "Yes, my dear, you are confused Your speech is completely incoherent." I: "I too believe that I've completely lost myself Am I really crazy? It's all terribly confusing." Prof: "Have patience, everything will work out Anyway, sleep welL" I: "Thank you, but I'm afraid." serious, and chaos is approaching Is this the ultimate bottom? Is chaos also a foundation? If only there weren't these terrible waves Everything breaks asunder like black billows Yes, I see and understand: it is the ocean, the almighty nocturnal tide-a ship moves there-a large steamer-I'm just about to enter the smoking parlor-many people-beautiful clothes-they all look at me astonished-someone comes up to me and says: "What's the matter? You look just like a ghost! What happened?" 1: "Nothing-that is-I believe that I have gone crazy-the floor sways-everything moves-" Someone: "The sea is somewhat rough this evening, that's all-have a hot toddy-you're seasick." I: "You're right, I am seasick but in a special way-I'm really in a madhouse." Someone: "Well now; you're joking again, life is returning." 1: "Do you call that wit? Just now the professor pronounced me truly and utterly mad." The fat little professor is actually sitting at a green-covered table playing cards He turns toward me when he hears me speale and laughs: "Well, where did you get to? Come here Would you like a drink too? You're quite a character, I must say You've put all the ladies in quite a flurry this evening." 1: "Professor, for me this is no longer a joke Just now I was your patient-" The parlor erupts in unbridled laughter Prof: "I hope that I haven't upset you too much." I: "Well, to be committed is no small                    The person to whom I had been speaking before suddenly comes up to me and looks me in the face He is a man with a black beard, a tousled head of hair, and dark shining eyes He speaks to me vehemently: "Something worse happened to me, it's five years now that I've been here." I realize that it is my neighbor, who has apparently awakened from his apathy and is now sitting on my bed He goes on speaking fiercely and urgently: "But I am Nietzsche, only rebaptized, I am also Christ, the Savior, and appointed to save the world, but they won't let me." I: "Who won't let you?" The fool: "The devil We are in Hell But of course, you haven't noticed it yet I didn't realize until the second year of my time here that the director is the devil." I: "You mean the professor? That sounds incredible." The fool: "You're an ignoramus I was supposed to marry the mother of God long ago 192 But the professor, that devil, has her in his power Every evening when the sun goes down he gets her with child In the morning before sunrise she gives birth to it Then all the devils come together and kill the child in a gruesome I [Image 109]193 I manner I distinctly hear his cries." 1: "But what you have told me is pure mythology." The fool: "You're crazy and understand nothing of it You belong in the madhouse My God, why does my family always shut me in with crazy people? I'm supposed to save the world, I'm the Savior!" He lies down again and sinles back into his lassitude I clutch the sides of my bed to protect myself against the terrible waves I stare at the wall, so that I can at least latch onto something with anew, only to stumble again and mock and loathe yourself, but definitely despise and pity yourself But if you lmow what the dead demand, temptation will become the wellspring of your best work, indeed of the work of salvation: When Christ ascended after completing his work, he led those up with him who had died prematurely and incomplete under the law of hardship and alienation and raw violence The lamentations of the dead filled the air at the time, and their misery became so loud that even the living were saddened, and became tired and sick of life and yearned to die to this world already in their living bodies And thus you too lead the dead to their completion with your work of salvation" (pp 390-9I) IS9 The Drcift continues: "You employ old word magic to protect yourself through superstition for you are still a powerless child of the old wood But we can see behind your word magic, and it is rendered feeble, and nothing protects you against the chaos other than acceptance" (P.395) 190 Third night 191 January IS, 19I4 192 In The Relations between the I and the Unconscious (I92S), Jung refers to a case of a man with paranoid dementia he encountered during his time at the Burgholzli who was in telephonic communication with the Mother of God (CW 7, §229) 193 Image legend: "This man of matter rises up too far in the world of the spirits, but there the spirit of the heart bores through him with a golden ray He falls with joy and disintegrates The serpent, who is evil, could not remain in the world of spirits." 10B/no my eyes A horizontal line runs along the wall, which is painted a darker color beneath A radiator stands in front of it-it is a railing and I can see the sea beyond it The line is the horizon And there the sun now rises in red glory, solitary and magnificent-in it is a cross from which a serpent hangs-or is it a bull, slit open, as at the slaughterhouse, or is it an ass? I suppose it is really a ram with a crown of thorns-or is it the crucified one, myself? The sun of martyrdom has arisen and is pouring bloody rays over the sea This spectacle lasts a long time, the sun rises higher, its rays grow brighterl94 and hotter and the sun burns down white on a blue sea The swell has subsided A charitable and quiet summer dawn lies on the shimmering sea The salty smell of water rises up A faint wide surf brealcs on the sand with a dull thunder, and returns incessantly, twelve times, the strokes of the world clock95-the twelfth hour is complete And now silence enters No noise, no breeze Everything is rigid and deathly still I wait, secretlyanx- ious I see a tree arise from the sea Its crown reaches to Heaven and its roots reach down into Hell I am completely alone and dis- heartened and gaze from afar It is as if all life had flown from me and completely passed into the incomprehensible and fearful I am utterly weak and incapable "Salvation," I whisper A strange voice spealcs: "There is no salvation here,196 you must remain calm, or you will disturb the others It is night and the other people want to sleep." I see, it's the attendant The room is dimly lit by a weak lamp and sadness weighs on the room 1: "I couldn't find the way." He says: "You don't need to find a way now." He speaks the truth The way, or whatever it might be, on which people go, is our way, the right way There are no paved ways into the future We say that it is this way, and it is We build roads by going on Our life is the truth that we seek Only my life is the truth, the truth above all We create the truth by living it [2] This is the night in which all the dams broke, where what was previously solid moved, where the stones turned into serpents, and everything living froze Is this a web of words? If it is, it is a hellish web for those caught in it There are hellish webs of words, only words, but what are words? Be tentative with words, value them well, take safe words, words without catches, do not spin them with one another so that no webs arise, for you are the first who is ensnared in them.197 For NOX TERTIA I 299 words have meanings With words you pull up the underworld Word, the paltriest and the mightiest In words the emptiness and the fullness flow together Hence the word is an image of God The word is the greatest and the smallest that man created, just as what is created through man is the greatest and the smallest So if I fall prey to the web of words, I fall prey to the greatest and the smallest I am at the mercy of the sea, of the inchoate waves that are forever changing place Their essence is movement and movement is their order He who strives against waves is exposed to the arbitrary The work of men is steady but it swims upon chaos The striving of men seems like lunacy to him who comes from the sea But men consider him mad.198 He who comes from the sea is sick He can hardly bear the gaze of men For to him they all seem to be drunk and foolish from sleep-inducing poisons They want to come to your rescue, and as for accepting help, for sure you would like less of that, rather than swindling your way into their company and being completely like one who has never seen the chaos but only talks about it But for him who has seen the chaos, there.is no more hiding, because he knows that the bottom sways and knows what this swaying means He has seen the order and the disorder of the endless, he knows the unlawful laws He knows the sea and can never forget it The chaos is terrible: days full of lead, nights full of horror But just as Christ knew that he was the way, the truth, and the life, in that the new torment and the renewed salvation came into the world through him,199 I know that chaos must come over men, and that the hands of those who unknowingly and unsuspectingly break through the thin walls that separate us from the sea are busy For this is our way, our truth, and our life Just as the disciples of Christ recognized that God had become flesh and lived among them as a man, we now recognize that the anointed of this time is a God who does not appear in the flesh; he is no )nan and yet is a son of man, but in spirit and not in flesh; hence he can be born only through the spirit of men as the conceiving womb of the God.2oO What is done to this God you do to the lowest in yoursel£ under the law of love according to which nothing is cast out For how else should your lowest be saved from depravity? / [Image III]201 / Who should accept the lowest in you, if you do not? But he who does it not from love 194 Jung's marginal note to the calligraphic volume: "22.3-1919." This seems to refer to when this passage was transcribed into the calligraphic volume 195 In Psychology and Religion (1938), Jung commented on the symbolism of the world clock (CW II, §IIoff) 196 In Dante's Commedia, the following lines are inscribed over the gates of Hell: "Abandon every hope, you who enter" (canto 3, line 9) See The Divine Comedy of Dante Aligheri, vol I., ed and tr Robert Durling (New York: Oxford University Press), p 55 197 The Draft continues: "For words are not merely words, but have meanings for which they are set They attract these meanings like daimonic 陰影 (shadow)s" (P.403) 198 The Drift continues: "Once you have seen the chaos, look at your face: you saw more than death and the grave, you saw beyond and your face bears the mark of one who has seen chaos and yet was a man Many cross over, but they do not see the chaos; however the chaos sees them, stares at them, and imprints its features on them And they are marked forever Call such a one mad, for that is what he is; he has become a wave and has lost his human side, his constancy" (p 404) 199 The preceding sentence is crossed out in the Corrected Drift, and Jung has written in the margin: "cpIAHMQN identification" (P.405) 200 Jung elaborated on this issue many years later in Answer to] ob (1952), where he studied the historical transformation of Judeo- Christian God images A major theme in this is the continued incarnation of God after Christ Commenting on the Book of Revelation, Jung argued that: "Ever since John the apocalyptist experienced for the first time (perhaps unconsciously) the conflict into which Christianity inevitably leads, mankind is burdened with this: God wanted and wants to become man" (CW II, §739) In Jung's view, there was a direct link between John's views and Eckhart's views: "This disturbing invasion engendered in him the image of the divine consort, whose image lives in every man: of the child, whom Meister Eckhart also saw in the vision It was he who knew that God alone in his Godhead is not in a state of bliss, but must be born in the human soul The incarnation in Christ is the prototype which is continually being transferred to the creature by the Holy Ghost" (Ibid., §741) In contemporary times, Jung gave great importance to the papal bull of the Assumptio Maria He held that it "points to the hieros gamos in the pleroma, and this in turn implies, as we have said, the future birth of the divine child, who, in accordance with the divine trend toward incarnation, will choose as his birthplace the empirical man This metaphysical process is known as the 個體化歷程 (individuation) process in the psychology of the unconscious" (Ibid., §755) Through being identified with the continued incarnation of God in the soul, the process of 個體化歷程 (individuation) found its ultimate significance On May 3, 1958, Jung wrote to Morton Kelsey: "The real history of the world seems to be the progressive incarnation of the deity" (Letters 2, p 436) 201 Image legend: "The serpent fell dead unto the earth And that was the umbilical cord of a new birth." The serpent is similar to the serpent in Image 109 In Black Book 7 on January 27,1922, Jung's soul refers to images 109 and III His soul says: "the giant cloud of eternal night is awful I see a yellow shining stroke on this cloud from the top left-hand corner in the irregular shape of a streak of lightning, and behind it an indeterminate reddish light in the cloud It does not move I see a dead black serpent lying beneath the cloud and the lightning It does not move Beneath the cloud I see a dead black serpent and the thunderbolt stuck in its head like a spear A hand, as large as that of a God, has thrown the spear and everything has frozen to a gloomy image What is it trying to say Do you recall that image that you painted years ago, the one in which the black and red man with the black and white serpent is struck by the ray of God [i.e., image 109]? This image seems to follow that one, because afterward you also painted the dead serpent [i.e., image III] and did you not behold a gloomy image this morning, of that man in the white robe and a black face, like a mummy?" I: "How now, what is this supposed to mean?" Soul: "It is an image of your self" (p 57) IIO/II2 300 I LIBER SECUNDUS U2/U4 but from pride, selfishness, and greed, is damned None of the damnation is cast out either.202 If you accept the lowest in you, suffering is unavoidable, since you do the base thing and build up what lay in ruin There are many graves and corpses in us, an evil stench of decomposition.203 Just as Christ through the torment· of sanctification subjugated the flesh, so the God of this time through the torment of sanctification will subjugate the spirit Just as Christ tormented the flesh through the spirit, the God of this time will torment the spirit through the flesh For our spirit has become an impertinent whore, a slave to words created by men and no longer the divine word itself204 The lowest in you is the source of mercy: We take this sickness upon ourselves, the inability to find peace, the baseness, and the contemptibility so that the God can be healed and radiantly ascend, purged of the decomposition of death and the mud of the underworld The despicable prisoner will ascend to his salvation shining and wholly healed.205 Is there a suffering that would be too great to want to undergo for our God? You only see the one, and do not notice the other But when there is one, so there is also another and that is the lowest in you But the lowest in you is also the eye of the evil that stares at you and looks at you coldly and sucks your light down into the dark abyss Bless the hand that keeps you up there, the smallest humanity; the lowest living thing GE:ite a few would prefer death Since Christ imposed bloody sacrifice on humanity; the renewed God will also not spare bloodshed Wherefore art thou red in thine apparel, and thy garments like him that treadeth it) the winefat? I have trodden the winepress alone and no one is with me I have trodden myself down in my anger, and trampled upon myself in my fury Hence my blood has spattered my clothes, and I have stained my robe For I have afforded myself a day of vengeance, and the year to redeem myself has come And I looked around, and there was none to help; and I wondered that there was no one who stood by me: therefore my own arm must save me, and my fury upheld me And I trod myself down in my rage, and made myself drunk in my fury, and spilt my blood on the earth.206 For I took my misdeed upon myself so that the God would be healed Just as Christ said that he did not come to mal(e peace but brought the sword/07 so he in whom Christ becomes complete will not give himself peace, but a sword He will rebel against himself and one will be turned against the other in him He will also hate that which he loves in himself He will be castigated in himself mocked, and given over to the torment of crucifixion, and no one will aid him or soothe his torment Just as Christ was crucified between the two thieves, our lowest lies on either side of our way And just as one thief went to Hell and the other rose up to Heaven, the lowest in us will be sundered in two halves on the day of our judgment The one is destined for damnation and death, and the other will rise up 208 But it will tal(e a long time until you see what is destined for death and what is destined for life, since the lowest in you is still unseparated and one, and in a deep sleep If I accept the lowest in me, I lower a seed into the ground of Hell The seed is invisibly small, but the tree of my life grows from it and conjoins the Below with the Above At both ends there is fire and blazing embers The Above is fiery and the Below is fiery Between the unbearable fires grows your life You hang between these two poles In an immeasurably frightening movement the stretched hanging welters up and down.209 We thus fear our lowest, since that which one does not possess is forever united with the chaos and takes part in its mysterious ebb and flow Insofar as I accept the lowest in me-precisely that red glowing sun of the depths-and thus fall victim to the confusion of chaos, the upper shining sun also rises Therefore he who strives for the highest finds the deepest To deliver the men of his time from the stretched hanging, Christ effectively took this torment upon himself and taught them: "Be crafty like serpents and guileless like doves."210 For craftiness counsels against chaos, and guilelessness veils its 202 The Draft continues: "But who does this under the law oflove will move beyond suffering, sit at the table with the anointed and behold God's glory" (P.406) 203 The Draft continues: "But God will come to those who take their suffering upon themselves under the law of love, and he will establish a new bond with them For it is predicted that the anointed is supposed to return, but no longer in the flesh, but in the spirit And just as Christ guided the flesh upward through the torment of salvation, the anointed of this time will guide the spirit upward through the torment of salvation" (P.407) 204 The Draft continues: "The lowest in you is the stone that the builders discarded It will become the cornerstone The lowest in you will grow like a grain of rice from dry soil, shooting up from the sand of the most barren desert, and rise and stand very tall Salvation comes to you from the discarded Your sun will rise from muddy swamps Like all others, you are annoyed at the lowest in you because its guise is uglier than the image of yourself that you love The lowest in you is the most despised and least valued, full of pain and sickness He is despised so much that one hides one's face from him, that he is held in no respect whatsoever, and it is even said that he does not exist because one is ashamed for his sake and despises oneself In truth, it carries our sickness and is ridden with our pain We consider him the one who is plagued and punished by God on account of his despicable ugliness But he is wounded, and exposed to madness, for the sake of our own justice; he is crucified and suppressed for the sake of our own beauty We leave him to punishment and martyrdom that we might have peace But we will take his sickness upon ourselves, and salvation will come to us through our own wounds" (pp 407-8) The first lines refer to Psalm II8:22 The passage echoes Isaiah 53, which Jung cited above, p 229 205 The Draft continues: "Why should our spirit not take upon itself torment and restlessness for the salce of sanctification? But all this will come over you, for I already hear the steps of those who bear the keys to open the gates of the depths The valleys and mountains that resound with the noise of battles, the lamentation arising from innumerable inhabited sites is the omen of what is to come My visions are truth for I have beheld what is to come But you are not supposed to believe me, because otherwise you will stray from your path, the right one, that leads you safely to your suffering that I have seen ahead May no faith mislead you, accept your utmost unbelief it guides you on your way Accept your betrayal and infidelity, your arrogance and your better knowledge, and you will reach the safe and secure route that leads you to your lowest; and what you do to your lowest, you will do to the anointed Do not forget this: Nothing of the law of love is abrogated, but much has been added to it Cursed unto himself is he who kills the one capable of love in himself for the horde of the dead who died for the salce of love is immeasurable, and the mightiest among these dead is Christ the Lord Holding these dead in reverence is wisdom Purgatory awaits those who murder the one in themselves who is capable oflove You will lament and rave against the impossibility of uniting the lowest in you with the law of those who love I say to you: Just as Christ subjugated the nature of the physical to the spirit under the law of the word of the father, the nature of the spirit shall be subjugated to the physical under the law of Christ's completed work of salvation through love You are afraid of the danger; but know that where God is nearest, the danger is greatest How can you recognize the anointed one without any danger? Will one ever acquire a precious stone with a copper coin? The lowest in you is what endangers you Fear and doubt guard the gates of your way The lowest in you is the unforeseeable for you cannot see it Thus shape and behold it You will thus open the floodgates of chaos The sun arises from the darkest, dampest, and coldest The unknowing people of this time only see the one; they never see the other approaching them But if the one exists, so does the other" (pp 409-10) Jung here implicitly cites the opening lines of Friedrich Holderlin's "Patmos," which was one of his favorite poems: "Near is / the God, and hard to grasp / But where danger is, / salvation also grows." Jung discussed this in Traniformations and Symbols of the Libido (1912, CW B, §65If) 206 These lines actually cite Isaiah 63:2-6 207 Matthew 10:34: "Think not that I am come to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword." 208 In Answer to}ob (1952), Jung wrote of Christ on the cross: "This picture is completed by the two thieves, one whom goes down to hell, the other into paradise One could hardly imagine a better representation of the oppositeness of the central Christian symbol" (CW II, §659) 209 Dieterich notes that in Plato's Gorgias, there is the motif that transgressors hang in Hades (Nekyia, p II7) In Jung's list of references at the back of his copy ofNekyia, he noted: "II7 hanging." 210 Matthew 10:16: "Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves."

---
